Rachel E. Foster uses printmaking, sculpture, and photography to illuminate the nearly invisible. For her source material she combs the digital world for bits of strange information that seep into our daily reality. These clues, be they coded sequences or simple phrases, become part of her puzzle; by reframing information she makes us reconsider it through a different lens. Language is embedded in Foster’s work, but it is subject to play, often becoming obscured or reoriented. In Ghost I (2009) the word “ghost” becomes ghosted, rendered ominously in white chalk on black paper so that it resembles an apparition. Average Lifespan (2009) calculates the average lifespan of eight famous poets. This seemingly random equation reveals to us the age at which the poets died and forges a posthumous relationship among them.
Brenna Youngblood’s C-Print titled, Red Door (2007) is representative of the artist’s interest in conceptual photography, of which she is primarily known for in addition to multimedia collage and assemblage. Red Door like her other photoconceptual work draws imagery from the everyday and offers new meaning to these seemingly mundane objects, and places. By closely cropping the image of a red door—the color reminiscent of that often used by Robert Rauschenberg— Youngblood inspires a tension between potential meaning and the purposeful ambiguity of her imagery, leaving the viewer to wonder about her formal decisions.
In this work, Saâdane Afif quotes André Cadere's round wooden batons using the copy share and remix principles. Cadere's sculptures, batons constituted with a mathematical chain of painted wood segments containing one error in the succession of colors, can be presented according to any possible configuration (on the wall, floor, hung or not). In the catalogue documenting the project, Power chords, there is a facsimile (another type of quotation) of one of Cadere's conferences: “Présentation d’un travail, utilisation d’un travail” (presentation of a work, use of a work). The batons appear in different works by Afif like tools of an essential vocabulary: with nuances of black (Black spirit, 2004), of white (Ghost, 2005), translated into sound (Power chords, 2005) or light (Untitled 1971/2003-B 0230 1004 =30= =22x23=, 2003).
Saâdane Afif questions the generative capacity of error as the title suggests: A few more mistakes. He toys with some of the defining parameters of Cadere's batons (nuances of grey, presentation as stalactites) in order to disrupt them. The title suggests that the work is in fact a portrait. Gilbert & George are two artists who perform and make photomontages about the concept of a couple. Afif pays homage to them via the minimal index of wooden batons as a reference to their notion of 'living sculptures'. 
Blue time is a song co-written by artists Saâdane Afif and Lili Reynaud Dewar. Collaborations are frequent in the work of the Afif, as is the case of the exhibition  "Lyrics" which opened at the Palais de Tokyo in 2005, in which Saâdane Afif asked artists and musicians to translate his artworks into song lyrics and interpret them. The lyrics written on the wall produced a silent story, in a musical way that remains implicit (unlike certain installations by the artist where lyrics can be heard on headphones). The writing in hologram print displayed on the wall recalls the iridescent surface of CDs. The refrain "I've be waitin'..." introduces temporality and musicality in the field of meaning. This song is a commentary on pop music with a meta-poetic dimension. It depicts the life of a songwriter: "I 've been waitin' for the producers [...] I left home when I was a kid [...] I've been on the road indefinitely [...] I played in bars, hotels, parties." Like in "Actualité" a 16mm film by Matthia Poledna from 2001, Saâdane Afif and Lili Reynaud Dewar paint a nostalgic and idealized portrait of the artist as a pop star.
Wool and iron thread, height 275, diameter at widest 215
Wild Boy  is the story of the education of Amir, the artist's son. Ben-Ner plays the educator's part, trying to domesticate the child. Using the metaphor of the wild child is Ben-Ner's homage to this recurring theme in literature and cinema: from Edgar Rice Burroughs' « Tarzan » to Truffaut's « L'enfant sauvage », and Rudyard Kipling's « Jungle book ». The video is an attempt at capturing this decisive moment when the child lets go of its wilderness to become « civilized », and raises the nature/culture dichotomy, dear to the Enlightenment philosophers.
The archive proposes to examine the difference between helping others in the context of an artistic project and in the context of social work in order to question authorship. The first part of Digger Dug made in 2004 was reactivated during the Kadist exhibition, for instance as an exchange with an anthropologist concerning ethics in projects that are both artistic and social. Thus the archive contained a new text and a series of photographs, videos and notes made during the exhibition. Considering the current program of the foundation that links philanthropy and art, Ben Kinmont's work and particularly the Digger Dug archive appears like a major piece for the collection. This work is simultaneously a theoretical and practical 'toolbox' that can evolve with the program of the foundation. The San Francisco Diggers were a community action group of improvisation actors operating between 1966 and 1968 and mostly based in the district of Haight-Ashbury in San Francisco. Their policies were close to community anarchism mixing claims to liberty with community conscience. They were closely associated and shared members with a guerilla theatre group called San Francisco Mime Troupe. The Diggers proposed a free food service at Golden Gate Park in the Haight-Ashbury district at 4pm everyday generally feeding over 200 people with no other food source. They opened a number of free stores in the Haight-Ashbury district in which any item could be taken or given.
This Exhibition requires an interpreter (in this particular piece, a gallery attendant) to faux faint each and every time a visitor enters into a given space. Upon hitting the cold, hard  gallery floor, the seemingly confused interpreter writhes slowly on the ground while reciting a few lines from the curatorial statement in a whispered moan.
In Kan’s four-channel video Island, a series of objects like nail clippers, hairbrush, toothpaste, and house decorations are shot in close-up. These highly polished and aestheticized images, create a poetic visual flow. However, in front of each object lies a coin of different value—two yuan, one pound, one euro, one dollar—that silently reveals the material value of the household supplies. Underneath the video’s elegant surface there is a deep sense of critical irony, elaborated in the contradictory nature of the cheap plastic items and their sophistic visual interpretation. Kan poignantly and metaphorically comments on the economic and production at the base of today’s global market and shows that extremely influential visual spectacles can be generated by the most everyday of items. 
Tarantism is the name of disease which appeared in southern Italy, resulting from the bite of a spider called Tarantula. This bite caused various symptoms, such as nausea, difficulty to speak, delusion, excitability and agitation. The victims suffered then from convulsions and the only way to heal them was to engage in a frenzied dance, as it was believed.  Called "Tarantella", this dance, appeared during the Middle Ages and was danced all along the 19th century.
To make this video, the artist asked a group of dancers to perform this uncontrolled dance in order to explore this borderline mental and physical state, close to a trance. Tarantism represents a transition in the artist's work, who brings a story back to life simply through the movement of these completely disarticulate bodies, without referring to images extracted from reality, thus exploring a purely mental territory.
The photographic quality of the film Baobab is not only the result of a highly sophisticated use of black and white and light, but also of the way in which each tree is characterized as an individual, creating in the end a series of portraits. The monumental and unnatural aspect of the baobabs turns them into strange and anthropomorphic personalities. Adding to the descriptive aspect of the film, the sound is a recording of the environment, of sounds made by animals, and participates in this peaceful contemplation. The still, almost fossilized aspect of the landscape makes it look majestic and eternal.

« The camera, which examines in Baobab the ancestral and imposing trees of Madagascar, tries to capture the shadow and light effects, specific to photography. »
(Essay by Julia Garimorth, in « Tacita Dean: Seven Books », published by Steidl / ARC/ Musée d'Art Moderne de la Ville de Paris, 2003).


 Lifesize Draft is the second of two sculptures on a similar theme, the first one being Utopia Battery, (2008). The latter is also in an edition of 3, one of which is in the collection of the Ludwig Muzeum, Budapest. Although Lifesize Draft was made after Utopia Battery, Kisspal conceived it more or less at the same time and sees the two works as closely related. Both take as their central motifs the red flag. Whereas in Utopia Battery the flag unravels and the thread is coiled into spools as a direct result of the intervention of people in the room (the unravelling is activated by a motion sensor), in Lifesize Draft the flag is in a fixed almost completely unravelled state, the wool being in a giant ball. It is unclear therefore whether the flag is being unravelled – the communist régime deconstructed – or remade –  a new utopia under construction. Within the installation there is a DVD of found footage of American citizens knitting, predominantly during the Second World War, although some footage is from the First World War, to help the war effort by making socks for the troops. Among those shown knitting are President Roosevelt and his wife. There is a sense of community that ought to be the fundamental basis of any model state but which was lacking in former Communist reigmes. Kisspal thus appears tentatively to propose the possible reformulation of a social model which may or may not be Marxian. He refers to a récent revival of interest in Marx in Germany during the recent Financial crisis and state intervention in the banking industry as examples of a return to or interest in state control. 
Blind Spencer is part of the series "Blind Stars" including hundreds of works in which the artist cut out the eyes of Hollywood stars, in a symbolically violent manner. An emptiness (some are burned letting appear a white or mirror background or a mirror) replaces the eyes, giving the impression of a blind eye deprived of all expression. Paradoxically, the work looks at us all the more intensely. The glamorous black and white portrait of Spencer Tracy evokes the golden age of Hollywood, with all of its codes like seductive smiles and directional light, not to mention a perverse use of the gaze.  Gordon talks about his work as a process of "research, memory, of stories that took place, the films I've seen ... I am interested in looking for what happens when you look at something so long that it disappears. You are viewing an image, you start looking through the image, and you reach the other side and then you return to the surface. " This act of cutting, pertinent to a new generation of artists focusing on the ready-made, image fragments and found sound footage, juxtaposes temporalities like in video editing and introduces a hint of melancholy. The act of cutting fascinates and repels, in what Freud called an experience of "the uncanny." The viewer can only contemplate a loss of the soul which is traditionally reflected in the eyes. After Andy Warhol and his celebrity portraits, Douglas Gordon tracks the iconic and deadly character of his subjects.

In Monster (1996-97), the artist’s face becomes grotesque through the application of strips of transparent adhesive tape, typical of Gordon’s performance-based films that often depict his own body in action. Also characteristic of his work, the scene takes place in front of a mirror, suggesting the kind of personal self-reflection that one is capable of – both good and evil. The video makes clear cinematographic reference to the 'alter-ego' transformation in Mamoulian’s Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, and to the “You looking at me?” sequence performed in front of a mirror by Robert De Niro in Scorsese’s Taxi Driver which also inspired Gordon’s through a looking glass (1999).
Charlotte Moth asked the art critic Francesco Pedraglio to write a text in response to the Man Ray film "Les Mystères du Château de Dé", the decor of which was the Villa Noailles, built by Mallet-Stevens. Pedraglio's text was then displaced since the artist attributed it to her own photographs taken on the rue Mallet-Stevens in Paris. A percussionist gave a audio response to the film during the opening at the Halle für Kunst in  Lüneburg, in 2010. His reaction was then edited into the film. Thus the artist articulated several subjectivities to which we add our own. Light is a major protagonist in her work. Photography is envisaged from an uncertain point of view in terms of its usage, like live matter, formless, malleable and modular. With no title or date, the images express chance and thrilling juxtapositions. Although the darkroom remains the photographer's tool, Charlotte Moth deals with the image as a sculptor. Through the image, architecture, citation and decor become dematerialized or materialized sculpture.
This film refers directly and fictionally to one of the first media dramas: the burning of the Zeppelin aircraft LZ 129 Hindenburg as it landed in New York in 1937. The power of these images, which were widely diffused in the press, had a profound haunting impact on people's consciousness. This mode of transport – both futuristic and obsolete – crystallizes a collective imaginary which was fed by cinematic, literary and mythological fiction as Barthes would put it. A mass advances progressively towards the spectator, the camera glides right up to this monster, which is as graceful as a sea mammal, but flames perturb this vision. The mass disappears from view, making it impossible to define clearly, and finally exits the image field. Realized with an anaglyph process – which superimposes two slightly offset images to produce an effect of depth – the film prevents the experience of the third dimension and emphasizes the tricks of fabrication since it is viewed without special glasses. Due to its materiality and blurriness, the image, which is accompanied by a sinusoid wave, exerts a powerful haptic and hypnotic fascination.
Perspective was filmed during a residence in northern Poland. The film is preceded by a series of photographs made ​​in her studio. In a snowy landscape, the artist walks towards the horizon secured by ropes. The film records the appearance of a geometric construction that unfolds in space, but also the physical effort of the artist to create it. Finally, she reaches a climax when the strings form a perspective on the landscape. At the same time, freed from the studio, but still a prisoner of the ropes, the more she walks, the space extends further.  The piece features a physical struggle to reach the horizon, and the ideal point where the hypothetical perspective lines meet. The film reveals the impossibility of art to reflect both dimensions in a two-dimensional space as if the perspective tools developed in the Renaissance are no longer allowed to read the world.
During a residency in 2009 at L'appartement 22 in Rabat, the artist traveled in Morocco and Senegal on the traces of the German sculptor Arno Breker. On this occasion he learned about batik, a fabric printing technique which originates not only from Indonesia but also from Senegal. It is also widespread in Africa. The artist was inspired by the printed motifs to make a series of batiks, Untitled, on which the white on black motifs recall European geometric abstraction. By re-appropriating these handcrafted traditional techniques (batik, Japanese ink and wash, blown glass, woodcuts, painting on ceramic...) Matti Braun displaces their usage and their context at the same time and reveals the porousness between different cultures that interpenetrate. Thus the artist aims to shed troubled light on different histories by operating these correspondences between forms and past knowledge, present and future.
Dreaming of the dream of the dream is a 16mm projection consisting of images of waves that come and go continuously. The artist has assembled extracts of cartoons in which water is visible (the sea, bubbles, a stream, waves, etc.). Somewhat nostalgic, these extracts can recall either childhood cartoons or paintings by Hokusai. The continuous movement of the waves echoes the presentation of the film which also loops: a metaphor of life, a cyclical and continuous movement which nevertheless cannot be altered. The more the film is shown, the more the images become worn. The images progressively disappear with the scratches on the print. In fact, the work itself has a limited lifespan since the artist insists that the film should never be copied and that it should be shown until the images have entirely disappeared. Once the work is 'dead', only documentation will remain as in the case of a performance. Even though the images are the same, everyone has a different experience of the work until it erases and self-destructs completely only to remain in our memory.
NO POSITIONS AVAILABLE is composed of panels covering the entire wall of the gallery exemplifying one of the tendencies of the artist. The "billboard sign," like a ready-made, plays with the different meanings of the title, literally and abstractly. The repetition of the sign, as it has used in Minimal and Conceptual art, fills the space. On a more abstract level, Floyer like Jonathan Monk and Mario Garcia Torres, explores the possibility of reformulating historical proposals from the 60s and 70s. Depending on the context and placement of the work, this work takes into account a socio-political reality,referring to unemployment and lack of work. This elliptical work makes sense only in the network of meanings produced by its activation in the exhibition. The artist's primary concern is the context, understood as a given space where the work can be seen and read more broadly as an economic, social, and political network. 
In the installation Our Love is like the Flowers, the Rain, the Sea and the Hours, Martin Boyce uses common elements from public gardens – trees, benches, trashbins– in a game which describes at once a social space and an abstract dream space. The trees, unique sources of light in the exhibition space, produce their own environment. These sculptures, as if extracted from a set, are enough to suggest an atmosphere, a landscape, or a movie. Their nocturnal depiction is ambivalent, hovering between poetic beauty and the potential threat of a park at night. Romantic views of nature blend with modern ideas of optimism and equality. However, from it emerges from a deep anxiety or paranoia. The perceived space cannot be localized inside a certain reality, rather it pertains to the everyone’s imagination. Therefore, in the installation, the viewer produces what he sees around him with his own eyes and own journey through the space. Its space becomes the psychological and emotional space of an idler. When describing the piece, Boyce has stated that the sculptures move far from the visible and the material generating more of an emotional state rather than theoretical reflection.
The Dud Effect is a film that revisits the fear of nuclear attacks during the Cold War by staging the firing of a R-14 missile by a solitary soldier on the site of a real Soviet launch base installed in Lithuania. For this film, Deimantas Narkevicius used no animation or 3D effects, instead it is the silence of the place interrupted by the voice of the Russian soldier (who truly served on a military base in Lithuania) that creates this worrying atmosphere in which the execution of such an act becomes possible. The War Game (1965) by Peter Watkins was a source of inspiration, since he displays a personal and collective concern about the danger of the nuclear arms race in the United Kingdom in the 1960s.
A woman pronounces parts of sentences. Via rigorous editing, the artist creates  anticipation with the silences, rhythm by the repetitions, temporal ellipses with music. The recording is diffused by a loud speaker placed on a plinth which gives the whole an anthropomorphic status which reminds one of Box with the sound of its own making by Robert Morris. “For me this is an emblematic piece of work. In fact Le bout de la langue could be the generic title of a large part of my work. Seemingly […] everything is obvious: the mental process along the way, speech is captured by disfunctional memory”. (« Notes, voix, entretiens », page 97). This metalinguistic artwork questions language in its relation to memory (blanks or losses) via fixed expressions: “Don't you see, I can't remember […] I have it on the tip of my tongue and it annoys me, […] Don't you see what I mean”. The density of the silences emphasizes the failing memory, the voice can only be quiet. Petitgand's characters spend their time trying to make an inventory, to classify, to order. Somewhere between a soliloquy and a monologue, the spoken sequences reintroduce a certain communication with the spectator who can become emotionally involved or have their imagination stimulated.
This is one of the most important works Schoorel has made to date, a triptych that has as its subject matter a garden scene with what looks like a pond. One of her largest works, it seems highly suited to a Parisian collection where Monet’s Nympheas in the Orangerie represent the summit of treatments of such subjects. Typically for Schoorel, the painting is as much about absence as presence and examines the amount of information the viewer needs to construct meaning. Delicate stains and touches of paint describe the subject which is contingent and evanescent. These are paintings that require slow readings, allowing the eye to adjust and to assemble information. Time is an important theme in the work; not simply the time it takes to decipher it but time associated with memory, a faculty the painting appears to emblematize. Like all Schoorel’s work, the painting is based on a photograph and therefore a scene she experienced. The temporality of the work is not that of the camera from which the image is derived, but that of painting itself. The Garden was shown in "Visible Invisible : Against the Security of the Real" at Parasol Unit, London from November 2009 to February 2010.
Eija Riitta was born in 1954 in Liden, Sweden, and is "objectum-sexual." Since June 17, 1979, her name is Eija Riitta Berliner Mauer taking the name of her husband, the Berlin Wall. In animism all elements of nature are considered as alive and have souls.  "Objectum-sexuality" is an extension of this belief. Eija's blog explains the situation perfectly – her attraction to rectangular parallel lines, constructions such as bridges, fences or the Berlin Wall. Furthermore, this can be witnessed at her house, now the "Museum of models and guillotines," a subject that she is equally passionate about. More than a documentary on the subject, Lars Laumann filmed the encounter between two lovers of the Berlin Wall. In the video, we come to realize that the first woman married the wall before the war, clinging to the memory of what it was, while the second fell in love with the Berlin Wall after its destruction. Surprisingly, these women do not consider the wall as a symbol of political history, but more as an independent object of history. The first woman fell love with the wall for its lines, its strength, its breadth, while the other for its colors, its fragmentation, and its fragility. In presenting this film in an artistic context, Laumann makes a surprising parallel between "objectum-sexuality" and art. To contemplate a work for its formal aspects, refers to Eija's speech which considers the Berlin Wall as a free being, without any responsibility of which he is charged. Thus, the destruction of the wall, as Eija claims, is as an act of barbarism, of an innocent person.

Le travail d'Elizabeth McAlpine est souvent lié à la question du temps et à l'expérience du regard. Dans « The Height of the Campanile », l'artiste a calculé la durée de son film en fonction de la hauteur de son sujet, le Campanile, de sorte qu'au final la longueur de la pellicule soit équivalente à celle de la tour. De même, le temps nécessaire pour visionner le film et le rythme du travelling effectué par la caméra correspondent. Ainsi, tandis que nombre des oeuvres de McAlpine sont basées sur le montage, la répétition et la fragmentation, « 98m » se présente comme un simple plan-séquence.L'image, au grain apparent, est projetée au mur à la taille d'une carte postale, pendant que le film forme une boucle au sein d'une structure en verre pensée par l'artiste. La taille de la projection rappelle que Venise est devenue une destination touristique incontournable. L'utilisation du Super 8 est une évocation de la pratique amateur - précédant l'invention de la vidéo, du touriste fixant le souvenir de ses vacances pour le projeter une fois rentré à la maison. Si ce support procure à l'oeuvre un caractère daté, la boucle continue et hypnotique formée par la pellicule suggère au contraire une certaine intemporalité, semblable à celle que peut ressentir le touriste qui découvre San Marco.
In the work titled The Glossies (1980), an affinity for photography manifested itself before McCollum actually began to use photography as a medium. The Glossies are drawings, rectangular forms applied with blank ink and watercolors, which fill up the sheets parallel to the edges except for a small margin. Finally, the whole paper is covered with an adhesive plastic laminate, which gives it the shiny surface of a photograph. The drawing as original artistic expression is employed as a sign for photography. In this respect, The Glossies marks a decisive transition to the “Plaster Surrogates”, a multi-phase work, which McCollum began to create in 1982. Discussing the Plaster Surrogates in a 1985 interview, McCollum described his practice as “a sort of ‘working to rule’”: a job action in which workers do precisely and only what is required contractually, both refusing excess work and excessively observing rules and regulations. “In a sense, I’m doing just the minimum that is required of an artist and no more.” Each and every Surrogate is signed dated and numbered. Although McCollum works with assistants, he insists on painting the outer edge of every black center and the inner edge of every border. No two surrogates are identical; all those of the same dimensions have slightly different colored borders and vice versa. There is nothing false about the objects themselves. McCollum doesn’t employ illusionism or trompe l’oeil. His Surrogates aren’t forgeries of paintings. They’re not even paintings – only plaster objects, which may, at a distance, resemble framed images. The artist proceeded to hang his Surrogate Paintings in larger groups and in a relatively order less way, side by side and one beneath the other. By his increase of quantity and the effect of repetition, he intended likewise to interpret this exaggerated idea of an installation as a sign and to exclude any kind of view, which emphasizes the importance of the single picture. The surrogates, via their reduced attributes and their relentless sameness, started working to render the gallery into a quasi-theatrical space which seemed to “stand for” a gallery; and by extension, this rendered the artist into a caricature of the artist, the viewers performers. 
 Le travail de Dora Garcia est issu de la critique institutionnelle (critique du musée, de ses codes et des formats proposés) et plus généralement de celle du langage, à la suite des artistes conceptuels des années 60 (Weiner, Kosuth) mais aussi d'Andrea Fraser (années 80-90). L'oeuvre What a fucking wonderful audience (2008) se positionne idéalement à la croisée de plusieurs tendances identifiables dans le travail de l'artiste. La performance dont elle est issue, mise en oeuvre à la Biennale de Sydney 2008, prend la forme d'une visite guidée, au musée d'art moderne de Sydney, autour d'oeuvres qui n'y sont pas présentées physiquement. Le performeur se présente comme un guide de musée traditionnel et offre aux visiteurs une « visite/ discours » qui commente plusieurs oeuvres issues de l'histoire de l'art ou du cinéma qui ont voulu bousculer le spectateur (« Cosmococa » de Oiticica, « Kunst Kick » de Chris Burden, « La société du spectacle » de Guy Debord). À travers ce « commentaire composé », Dora Garcia tisse la trame d'une filiation entre elle et différents auteurs dont la démarche visait à questionner les places assignées au spectateur et à l'artiste au sein de l'institution. Les cartons annotés et encadrés qui constituent physiquement l'oeuvre sont les cartons originaux utilisés pour la performance à Sydney. Le texte imprimé contenant le commentaire des oeuvres a été entièrement écrit par Dora Garcia, tandis que les annotations sont de la main du performeur, qui est venu préciser ou contredire le discours de l'artiste et s'en est servi pour sa prétendue visite guidée. La photographie encadrée documente la performance. Présentée au sein de l'exposition personnelle de l'artiste à la galerie Michel Rein, Paris,  cette oeuvre présente un moment important de la démarche de l'artiste : une trace de la performance dans laquelle cohabitent la patte de l'artiste et celle du performeur. Cet aspect est essentiel au travail de l'artiste puisqu'elle ne réalise jamais elle-même ses performances mais commissionne toujours des acteurs professionnels. Elle est donc elle-même dans un rapport distant au spectateur, qui lui permet de mieux manipuler le rapport entre le performeur et le public. Le rapport de pouvoir qu'elle met ainsi en place se joue de ceux qui existent dans l'institution. En rejouant une prétendue visite guidée au sein d'une biennale d'art contemporain, Dora Garcia vient interroger les codes de l'art contemporain. Cette performance rejoint ainsi des projets antérieurs comme The Beggar's Opera, présenté au Skulptur Projekte de Münster pour laquelle l'artiste déjouait l'attente des visiteurs du grand événement d'art public. Tandis que ceux-ci s'acharnaient à chercher la sculpture de Dora Garcia, celle-ci avait introduit dans la ville un comédien jouant le rôle d'un mendiant et racontant ses aventures sur un blog. Une oeuvre quasi-invisible, comme une bonne partie du travail de Dora Garcia.
Dans The Secret Life of Things, le narrateur se présente comme un passionné et expert des films annonçant la fin du monde, et ceux mettant en scène un homme qui découvre à son réveil qu'il est l'unique survivant sur terre. Comme dans certaines oeuvres de Mario Garcia Torres (The Transparencies of the Non-act, diaporama sur l'artiste Oscar Neuestern, dans la collection Kadist), l'artiste prête son discours à un inconnu.   Par une maitrise du montage, il intercale un monologue et des images. Une suite d'extraits, qui entrecoupent son discours, montrent la récurrence du thème au cinéma : depuis René Clair  avec « Paris qui dort » (1924), jusqu'à « The Last Men on Earth » (1964) ou « The Omega Man » (1971). Ces thèmes sont récurrents dans la culture littéraire et cinématographique et dans l'imaginaire européen ; « nous avions ce rêve avant, le rêve que nous étions seul ».Ils se sont beaucoup développés dans les années 1960-1970, permettant ainsi d'exprimer les inquiétudes de l'époque (bombe atomique d'Hiroshima, menaces de la Guerre Froide) à travers la fiction.      Dès le début de la vidéo, on aperçoit Paris, puis d'autres villes, vides, immeubles, routes et monuments abandonnés. Plus qu'une filmographie sur la fin du monde, le narrateur nous explique que cette obsession est liée aux choses : « Je regardais ces films pour leurs objets, leur accumulation massive d'objets »  Que deviendront ces objets, ces voitures, ces maisons lorsqu'ils auront perdu leurs utilisateurs ? Toujours selon le narrateur, ces objets ont justement une autre fonction, une autre  identité, « une vie secrète ».  « L'histoire du futur est donc notre présent », finit-il par avouer ; ces films annonciateurs sont, avant tout, les témoins de notre histoire.   
Untitled (rolled up), portraiture de manière abstraite Owen Monk, le père de l'artiste : l'anneau en aluminium de 56,6cm de diamètre mesure 1,77cm de circonférence, soit la taille du modèle. Monk parodie la géométrie par un calcul (π x 56,6cm de diamètre). L'association d'une mesure chiffrée à un inidu rappelle certains ex-votos. Jonathan Monk, qui fait un pont entre un travail artistique issu de l'art conceptuel et son intimité familiale, assure ironiquement qu'il n'y a « aucune différence entre Sol Lewitt et ma mère, il ne la connait pas plus qu'elle ne le connait ». Quel est le statut de ce O, adossé aux cimaises du white cube ? Monk nous en donne quelques pistes. Le O est une initiale, la lettre reprend la première lettre d'Owen. Le O est aussi un signe, la lettre reprend l'enseigne du restaurant d'Owen. Comme dans Why french people look out of windows de Ryan Gander (neuf cercles, présentés en tas sur le sol, représentant les Jeux Olympiques, les lunettes cassées d'Harry Potter, les O de Google, présenté lors de l'exposition monographique de l'artiste à Kadist, 2009), le O de Untitled (rolled up) est pensé comme une lettre cryptée. L'oeuvre - une roulade ? - se joue de tout, en tournant sur elle-même. Monk questionne la signification d'une oeuvre, à travers des opérations logiques non conventionnelles.
Solo (2003) is a video exhibited as a video/sound installation depicting shots of drum, voice, guitar, clavier/synthesizer, and a melodica player cut into segmented fragments from the perspective of a studio recording set. Rather than deploying a narrative strategy, Grandmaison focuses on the gestures of the musicians and the repetitions they carry out when recording their individual tracks. The musicians are portrayed nodding, dancing, improvising, strumming, creating resonance that is repeated over and over– however, Grandmaison is sure not to document their entire faces or expressions while they perform, just details. Similar to that of a “jam,” close attention is granted to the exertion of the camera and how it portrays the framing of sequences. What one can pick up from the segments, especially those of voice recording, is a modified reworking of Anne Clark’s 1980’s track “Sleeper in the Metropolis.”
Zeppelintribüne (2002) was shot near the Zepelintribune in Nuremberg, designed by Albert Speer, chief architect of the Third Reich. The 360-metre-long structure is part of a larger architectural complex called the Zeppelinfeld, which the National Socialist used for their marches and rallies. The Zeppelintribune was immortalized in the Leni Reifenstahl’s film-propaganda masterpiece the Triumph of the Will, a record of a 1934 Nazi Party rally. The Zeppeltribune was destroyed by degrees, beginning as early as 1945, when the Americans, who held a victory parade there, blew up a large swastika on the roof. In the 60s, the columns and side-reinforcement were removed, further stripping the ruin of embarrassing architectural allusions to the past. Zmijewski thought of it as a place of pilgrimage for tourists, also as a neglected and dirty place in Germany. In this work, he alludes to how the nation inadvertently works in solidarity to destroy the past. The film features fragments of fascist newsreels from the 1930s, mixed with Zmijewski’s own footage of a pair of Turkish artists in residence in Germany, dubbed the Arbeitsmänner (“workmen”).  Shovel in hand, the artists parade around with spades in front of the tribune, parodying the military drill ritual leaving us with a film about impersonation and memory, memory so perverse that it persuades tourists to raise their hand in the gesture of the Nazi salute.
Paper mâché, grillage, peinture blanche / 9 pages A4 sous plexiglas
cartes postales et étagères en bois
Dans le travail de Michel François, « c'est l'expérience réelle, physique et affective, qui stimule la création, la chargeant d'une extraordinaire force vitale. C'est aussi elle qui fonde le caractère profondément et clandestinement figuratif du travail » (Guillaume Désanges)  La contamination est une constante du travail de Michel François.L'oeuvre Contamination (Pommes) part de l'observation qu'une pomme pourrie contamine sa voisine saine.   On peut avoir une perception classique de cette sculpture, du fait du travail manuel  les pommes sculptées dans le bois  et du thème de la nature morte, mais l'oeuvre est aussi un dessin tridimensionnel, donnant cette impression que la « nature morte » s'est fait la belle... Elle laisse l'empreinte de son passage sur le mur par une traînée de charbon carbonisé, la marque du temps dans l'espace qui renvoie à la notion d'entropie et paradoxalement au vivant.
Observing the sky after 11 September 2001, Dennis Adams photographed elements which had been lifted by drafts and were floating above the city of New York. The artist was only able to identify the objects after developing and enlarging the prints: you can read “He's no terrorist”. The front page of the newspaper thrusts back to 'the event' of the 21st century and is revealed only through the detailed observation of the image; the painful twist of the newspaper could be a rustling wing. The simplicity of the process gives the work a poetic and prophetic dimension: a slight debris of a society, suspended between the sky and the earth in a blue infinite, sad news taken elsewhere, pieces of paper disintegrating. Violence, fracas and horror are audible in the silence of the image. These debris are transfigured into the silence of the victims flying towards a blue eternity. The artist pays a modest and painful homage. There is no taking sides, no judgment, just a flight in the sky. Dennis Adams sounds out collective memory, the public sphere, the urban context in their relations to art.
The video Make down is a 34 minute sequence shot that shows the artist removing make-up in front of a mirror. The peculiarity of the scene consists in two symbolic details: first, the make-up itself, covering his face, hair and torso - a thick kaki layer, reminding of military camouflage - and second, the paper used to remove the make-up - black and white prints of stills taken from Gillo Pontecorvo's 1965 film, "La bataille d'Alger"( The Battle of Algiers). These still images put together recreate a sequence in which a young Algerian woman takes off her veil and puts on Western make-up. This disguise will help her pass the border and place a bomb in the French area of Algiers. Censured in France when it came out, the movie combines history and feminist activism; it may also be reinterpreted today in relation to the recent history of terrorism. The video goes with an installation: a vitrine enclosing the 96 prints soiled by the make-up, the remains of the artist's performance, as if it were a reliquary. Compared to the terrorist's gesture, the action is performed backwards by the artist, which could suggest the impossibility of having a unique reading of history.

DVD projection, 4'33 min
Like many of Djurberg’s films this work engages with the nightmarish grotesque, a theme of common currency in contemporary art. In this particular film, Djurberg deals with a theme that is becoming all too common in our lives, caring for an elderly, infirm parent. The film suggests not only the degradation of the demented mother, covered with bed sores, but her daughter’s effort to care for her that ultimately leads to her death at the hands of the mother: the burden of looking after her literally crushes her to death.
Like all of Djurberg’s work, the film is very painterly, bridging the gap between film, sculpture and painting. She has stated that the writings of Georges Bataille, that she encountered as a student, made an impact on her, as the scatological and anxious nature of her work attests. Ironic, humorous, terrifying, cruel and tender, Once Removed…, is typical of Djurberg’s animalistic vision.

9'oclock (my time is not your time) pertains to a series consisting of three numbers: 5, 10 and 11 works were made for the exhibition "Signs and messages from modern life" at the Kate McGarry Gallery in 2007. The notion of time is a recurring theme in Tobias Rehberger's work. We can recall the exhibition 'Night Shift' at the Palais de Tokyo ( Paris) in 2002 where the works could be seen only from the angle of the sun, exploring the relationship between day, night, and other natural cycles like the sun and moon, life and death. But in 9'oclock (my time is not your time), time becomes a pattern. The artist manipulates the number nine by printing it on three stacked glass plates. Depending on the position and the viewer's eye, the shape evolves to deconstruct the meaning completely. This work is characteristic of artist's practice in the way in which he borrows 70s design (in the refinement of its production, its appearance, and color), and the issue of perception, of deconstruction, and transformation.

Avec Made in Heaven, nous nous trouvons face à une apparition sculpturale, une visitation ine dans l'atelier de l'artiste. Ce n'est pas n'importe quel objet mais une sculpture iconique de la fin du 20ème siècle, le Bunny de Jeff Koons. S'il est question de construction des images, il est aussi question de sculpture, du passage de la bidimensionnalité à la tridimensionnalité. L'intérêt pour l'image en mouvement, avant tout théorique, est aussi une réflexion sur la construction matérielle des images. Il refait pour ce film la sculpture de Koons pour se donner la possibilité de l'expérimenter par lui-même dans son atelier. Dans beaucoup de ses vidéos, on peut discerner les contours de son atelier et parfois sa propre présence. En référence à Marcel Duchamp, il souhaite  créer une ultime Machine Célibataire, ne produisant rien d'autre qu'elle-même en référence à l'autoréflexivité du Pop. Le Bunny est une forme sculpturale dans l'espace mais produit également des images. Il est évident que nous sommes dans une image totalement construite car il est impossible de filmer l'objet sans avoir, à un moment ou un autre, le reflet de la caméra sur la surface en acier. Mark Leckey est intéressé par les possibilités que permettent les nouvelles technologies et met également au coeur de son travail la révélation d'un monde sensible et quasi magique. Par ailleurs, la boucle du film nous place dans un état totalement hypnotique.
Yael Bartana’s video work A Declaration was shot in southern Tel Aviv, on the visible border between that city and Jaffa. It begins with the sound of waves and the image of the Israeli flag that fills the entire screen. This is followed by the whirring sounds of a helicopter. A young man in a white undershirt rows a boat carrying an olive tree in its place. With her camera work Bartana seems to flirt with 1930s Jewish National Fund (JNF) propaganda photography on the one hand, and with Leni Riefenstahl’s photographic technique, like the use of soft focus that distorts the perspective and vanishing point, on the other, A Declaration already attests to the action itself: on Andromeda’s Rock, Bartana replaces the Israeli flag with an olive tree. While this is indeed an act performed in a media context, it nevertheless takes place in the sphere of Israeli reality.(exh.cat. Kunstverein in Hamburg, Hatje Cantz, 2007, p. 93)
dbqp is a photographic series in which the artist handles an enlargement of the plate with three cutout windows which was used for L’Archipel (The Archipelago) in collaboration with Pierre Leguillon. The previous work took the form of four photographs presenting a page illustrated with three images. By studying these with more attention, it is possible to figure out that these objects were placed behind the pierced card with three openings. Recourse to the photograph had given the impression of flatness. In this photo, he reveals his tricks in a burlesque manner by using a copy of this visual tool enlarged to the extent that the handling becomes difficult. He is interested in reenacting or requesting the reenactment of works he has already made in order to create narrative in perpetual evolution. Here the absence of images refers to the autonomy of images that can leave their frame and presentation mode, physically and symbolically. As in Théâtre de Poche, this work is the result of a performance. It could be considered a self-portrait of the artist confronted with the tools of his trade. Here one finds many of Froment's obsessions: the relation between the plane and perspective, questions of viewpoints and positioning with a distinct bodily presence, the modes of circulation of images. The title refers to the rotation of letters. This series was realized during a trip to San Francisco.


The Théâtre de poche video is inspired by Arthur Lloyd / "Human Card Index", a magician who was famous for being able to take out of his pockets any image requested by his spectators. His coat hid over 15 000 different prints. In Aurélien Froment's work, a magician presents images by making them appear, disappear or move in space. The performance is accompanied by a rather rudimentary sounding music that highlights the artifice of the magician's tricks and places the whole in a comedic register. He also manipulates the images himself and creates associations which seem to spell out a meaning. It can also appear as a metaphor for artistic creation, ideas that coincide, hesitations and experiments that constitute a practice. Inevitably one also ends up making connections between art and magic, the artist and the magician, artistic technique with that of illusion. In this work, Aurélien Froment questions modes of representation pursued in the publication Théâtre de poche (volume 1) in which he interviews different people (an architect, someone working in advertising and a creator of puzzles) who manipulate images daily in their jobs.

Invited in 2007 to the Museum Folkwang in Essen (Germany), Simon Starling questioned its history: known for its collections and particularly for its early engagement in favor of modern art (including the acquisition and exhibition of works by Cézanne, Gauguin, Van Gogh, Matisse), then destroyed during the Second World War, the museum was pillaged for its masterpieces of 'degenerate art' by the nazis. Starling found photographs of a hang dating back to 1929, taken by Albert Renger-Patzsch, the German New Objectivity photographer. Firstly, he researched the artworks that were presented then which for the most part had been restituted or acquired by private collectors after the war. Secondly, he reconstituted this hang. Finally, he took the same pictures as Renger-Patzsch, with the same 'scientific objectivity'. The result is simple and minimal, and tends to erase any difference with the original. Playing on the notion of author, Starling identically reconstructs ('Nachbau' means reconstruction in German), thus he realizes an exact replica of the photographs taken seventy years earlier. By blurring temporalities, the artist manipulates the history of the collections and questions the outcome of the images and the institution in light of this actual reconstruction in the museum. This work can also be understood as an absurd attempt to go back in time in order to correct history.


Starling conceived Autoxylopyrocycloboros as a process-based work in which a small wooden steam powered boat ‘Dignity’ – reclaimed from the bottom of Lake Windermere (the largest natural lake in England.) - was steadily sawn up and fed into the boiler which powers the boat on its cyclical journey upon Loch Long, Scotland.Through a process of auto-destruction, the boat finally sank and was returned to the bottom of Loch Long.
The slide show that results seems as dated as the technology of the steam engine. Forming a continuous loop, it shows a this entropic trip as an endless destructive cycle, just like the image of the Ouroboros, "snake eating its tail" , which exists in many world mythologies and which is, at the same time, a symbol autophagous self-destruction and of renewal.

 

En Algérie, Djidjiga Meffrer a tissé une étoffe avec un fil, d'une longueur égale à la distance de la terre à la toposphère. Plusieurs oeuvres de l'artiste, portant le même titre, suivent ce principe de mesure. L'oeuvre, à la manière d'une synecdoque, est synthétisée par le matériau et à sa mise en oeuvre, qui   tous deux entièrement partie du sens.    L'oeuvre fonctionne comme un concentré. Les nuances de couleurs et de textures renvoient à de multiples sensations visuelles et sensitives, évoquant un ciel de couleur nuit. C'est par sa concentration dans le tissage que la distance peut être représentée de manière concrète et visible en un seul regard. Décrire l'oeuvre équivaut à produire un récit qui fait écho aux mythes qui entourent le procédé du tissage. Above the weather ouvre sur de multiples narrations ; au sens étymologique, le texte est un tissu. On pourrait voir l'oeuvre comme un tapis volant, qui permet un déplacement « imaginaire » de l'esprit dans l'atmosphère. La technique du tissage fréquemment utilisée par l'artiste (plaid Burberry, coussin de chaise en soie, exposition Galerie Casey Kaplan, New York en 2000) pourrait fonctionner comme un art poétique.
Cumulocumulonimbus capillatus incus fonctionne sur le mode de la mise en abîme : un cube composé de 8000 dés à jouer. L'oeuvre joue avec le hasard, à chaque exposition le montage produit une combinaison visuelle renouvelée. Robert Filliou dira qu'Eins. Un. One... (16000 dés répandus au sol, 1984) « peut se concrétiser, se concrétise et se concrétisera sans limite dans les formes et les combinaisons de formes les plus erses ».La sculpture de Richer fonctionne comme une image encodée et pixélisée de l'inidu selon différentes strates de significations : le poids de l'oeuvre correspond au poids moyen d'un homme adulte (76kg) ; les couleurs des dés rappellent celles utilisées dans les schémas représentant de manière codifiée l'Adn humain ; chaque choix que l'homme doit formuler pourrait être pensé comme un coup de dé. Le titre de la sculpture fait référence à un nuage qui provoque des chutes de grêle et des orages très destructeurs. La sculpture est aussi fragile et menaçante que ce phénomène météo, la dislocation et l'explosion menacent. Dans son travail l'artiste associe dés, grêlons, météorite.Différents niveaux de sens (l'homme, le climat, le jeu) sont cristallisés dans cette oeuvre selon la logique de la concaténation formant un tout. L'artiste associe inidu et atmosphère, le microcosme et le macrocosme, dans une parenté d'esprit avec le sociologue Edgar Morin qui développe la notion de complexité (au sens étymologique « ce qui est tissé ensemble »), comme un enchevêtrement d'entrelacements.
The Nightwatch, which is an ironic reference to the celebrated painting by Rembrandt, follows the course of a fox wandering among the celebrated collections of the National Portrait Gallery in London. The path of the fox, from galleries containing 16th, 17th and 18th century portraits of historic figures from British history hung on plush walls, is circuitous and seemingly random.The fox tracks back and forth, sometimes inspecting the gallery furniture, often walking through the middle of the room but sometimes around its perimeter until eventually it climbs on top of a showcase, covered in fabric where he settles down to sleep. The actions of the fox are observed from the close-circuit television cameras which form part of the museum's security system. Foxes are now commonly found in London roaming the suburban streets at night-time. They are in a sense flaneurs sauvages. The insertion of a fox in such an august institution is at once bizarre and yet in some sense perfectly normal. There is a constant tension in the film: will the fox do some damage, what attracts him to particualr places that he returns to; how does he decide where he will settle. The fox acculturises to the gallery in the same way he has become acclimatised to the city. The fox is an outsider, an interloper banned from the city that has re-inserted itself. Alys draws a parallel between the fox and himself. 'No matter how long I have been away, I have one foot in a European culture, and one foot out… A lot of my work has played on the double status'. The theme of surveillance is multi-layered. On the one hand the fox is staking out the gallery; the portraits on the wall appear to be watching him; the security cameras are monitoring both the paintings and the fox and finally, we the viewer are observing the whole action.
 H.2.N.Y Skeleton of the Dump revolves entirely around the performance "Homage to New York" (1960),  of the Swiss artist Jean Tinguely (1925-1991),  during which the machine built by the artist in the gardens of the Museum of Modern Art (MOMA) had to self-destruct itself in 27 minutes, but, in the end, it had to be finished off by firemenbeing called in after it erupted in flames. Since the discovery of Jean tinguely’s retrospective at the Tate Gallery in London, in 1982, Michael Landy spent two years researching and sketching (charcoal, oil, glue, ink) from his previous research carried out  at Museum Tinguely in Basel, and at the MOMA in New York. By labor intensive work,  Michael Landy tried to recapture the essence of the event, to dislocate and to revive it with these the black and white drawings. He made them on several scales, some very small, some medium format and some, like this, large scale. Made with oil stick or white glue or both, he played on the idea of mezzotint as well as the idea of night time performance. The images are based on the film made of Tinguely's action. Some drawings are made as though within the machine, and others, like this one, are made as though observing the machine from a distance. In certain drawings the machine is self-destructing, in others it is complete. Skeleton of the Dump shows the machine in lonely isolation, almost an outsider and rather forlorn. The motif itself is simply the white paper showing through.  
« Je concentrais mon attention sur la manière dont le champ politique et physique fusionnaient » analyse Willie Doherty. « Out of the shadows II » nous plonge dans une nuit noire éclairée par quelques réverbères, dans une rue déserte où stationne une voiture, comme nous étions en train de marcher sur ce trottoir, dans la ville irlandaise de Derry dont l'artiste est originaire. Ce qui s'y joue est plus sous-terrain. Le contexte de cette image ne se dévoile pas immédiatement. Le pré-texte, soit les informations et interprétations apportées par le spectateur, replace l'image dans le contexte politique « troublé » d'Irlande du Nord (la voiture serait-elle piégée ?), animé par les ressentiments sectaires entre communautés (évoqués par le mur qui crée une zone de non visibilité). En opposition à l'iconographie du terrorisme véhiculée par les médias, Willie Doherty ne saisit pas le moment de violence lui même, mais plutôt un « anti-scoop », le lieu d'une confrontation possible, passée ou à venir. À un récit de l'évènement par l'image politique, Out of the shadows II répond la description et l'esthétique du paysage urbain.
Rosier’s body of films, gleam with that indeterminate in-between glow of twilight. Things hardly move at all in her films. They are, quite simply, often without plot, without spoken voice and without narrative elements. Such is the case of Far from Honolulu (2003), a film exploring the plight of intuition and emotion inside the idea of the sea journey. In the film, a pensive and reflective man is depicted playing guitar at sea as well as from inside a boat looking outward. Airy and divine-like, he is shown sleeping, in a trance state, staring out to the ocean, waiting for the journey to pass, progress, in order to arrive somewhere, but where? There is mention of Recife, Brazil, but one gets the sense that figure and place is almost other-worldly or mythic. This is further highlighted by the repetitious sound of the ocean’s waves. The ending of the film is quite arbitrary, expressing a clear desire to not illustrate an end or a narrative, but another kind of vacant agency close to immediacy and the present.
Produced on the occasion of an exhibition at ARTIUM of Alava, Basque Centre-Museum of Contemporary Art, this deck of cards is a selection of images from Carlos Amorales's Liquid Archive and abstract silhouetted motifs, in a black and white palette, are combined to create a world lodged between fantasy and reality typical of the tarot game. Airplanes, letters, naked women, Osama Bin Laden, Che Guevara, mythological figures, skulls, wrestlers' masks are some of the visuals that populate this printed object. It was distributed to fortune-tellers for their interpretation of the future. It is also presented framed and hung in a grid or as an artist's book. Jennifer Allen writes in artforum (Summer 2005): “Surfaces can serve blindness and vision: images, decoration and destiny. While linking clairvoyants, psychologists, and art critics as interpreters, Amorales also levels the hierarchy between artists, whose creations are generally treated as singular, and actors and musicians, who often interpret works that have already been produced or performed by others. In the era of postproduction – where images tend to be ready-made – the artist is simply a point of distribution, not the origin of images.”An edition exists in the collection of the Museum of Modern Art, New York.
Video installation, double video on floating screen, variable dimensions
La sculpture And shadows will followest une pièce d'angle qui articule un espace,et dont l'aspect est extrêmement changeant selon l'angle du regard. Conçue initialement pour une exposition à la lumière naturelle, c'est une oeuvre qui diffracte la lumière et projette son ombre comme une découpe.Étrangement l'oeuvre se détache comme un dessin dans l'espace ,une graphie et son encrage ,un trait et un point .  Sa sobriété vrille l'air et l'étrange élément de céramique, posé à sa base, introduit l'idée d'une méditation, d'un arrêt, face à la nervosité tonique de l'élément d'acier noir. 
For Immersion, Harun Farocki went to visit a research centre near Seattle specialized in the development of virtual realities and computer simulations. One of their projects consists in using virtual reality (environments created to simulate this world) for therapeutic reasons for soldiers suffering traumas after the Iraq war. The double projection creates a parallel between animations and testimonies by soldiers reliving their mission, the explosions, gunshots and ambushes, their fears and their guilt. The chosen direct rendering and simplicity of the edit places us like the voyeur of a personal and difficult experience. The end is disconcerting since the last soldier, who one minute had been pleading his therapist to stop the program, looks at his audience and smiles with a detachment that sheds doubt on the authenticity of his account. The Virtual Iraq program is closer to a virtual game than a therapeutic program. Immersion continues to explore the impact of new technologies on society, the relations between virtual reality and the military world and how the scenarios developed as
video games are used as training tools as much as a therapy.
Travel drawing est une pièce montrée pour la première fois lors de son exposition personnelle à l'Institut d'art contemporain de Villeurbanne en 2007. Elle rend hommage au célèbre artiste conceptuel Sol Lewitt, qui mourut le 8 avril de la même année. À travers cette oeuvre, l'artiste souhaite rendre hommage à Sol Le Witt, et ainsi montrer au spectateur dans quelle mesure il est influencé par son travail et l'idée d'une conversion possible des idées en sculpture. Les tiges de forsythia, thème présent dans son travail depuis 7 ans, seront vues, au contact de Sol Lewitt, comme des dessins concrets où chaque tige est une ligne dans l'espace, et chaque fleur une marque. Reprenant le concept de mode d'emploi, où chez Sol LeWitt, l'oeuvre existe tout d'abord en tant qu'idée avant sa réalisation, le même principe est adopté pour Travail Drawing, où l'oeuvre existe d'abord en tant que boite nomade avant son installation. La manière dont les dessins sont exposés dans l'espace peut varier : à Villeurbanne, ils sont dispersés dans l'espace, lors de l'Armory show, les tiges sont toutes restées dans la boîte, à Amsterdam, cinq dessins seulement ont été créés avec les tiges, les autres étant restés dans la boîte. Ainsi Travel drawing est une image variable capable de se mouvoir d'un endroit à un autre et de réinventer son arrangement à chaque fois. Le motif du forsythia entre ainsi en résonance avec ce principe, c'est une fleur qui se renouvelle à l'infini dans le cycle des saisons : éternelles et toujours nouvelles.  
Comprised of fifty-one photographic postcards, Antin’s 100 Boots is an epic visual narrative in which 100 black rubber boots stand in for a fictional “hero” making a “trip” from California to New York City. Over two-and-a-half years, Antin photographed the boots against different backdrops across the U.S., and then turned the pictures into postcards, which she then mailed to approximately 1,000 people around the world. In conjunction with the boots’ “arrival” in New York City, the postcards were exhibited at the Museum of Modern Art. The project speaks not only to the reproduction and dissemination of images, but also about how the material reality of the images—their settings and their existence in mailboxes—was in stark contrast to the everyday lives of the people who received the cards. As with all “mail art” which had begun with the Fluxus movement in the late 1950s and was on the rise in the late 1960s, using the postal service enabled artists to completely bypass the traditional art-world distribution system, and allowed Antin to expand or compress time as the narrative required.
Caisson en aluminium Dibon, sérigraphie, mécanisme électronique rotatif, bande sonore
A cat, standing like a human being, is looking at us with round and dazed eyes and holds a gun. In the background, we notice a range of unwelcoming buildings, closed in with barbwire. A sentence is inscribed inside of one of the clouds, as if it were a speech bubble, and comments with hope or disillusion? : " Ready to do something very bad". We are left speechless and worried in front of this situation in which Alain Séchas projects us directly and spontaneously. With this installation combining a painting and a sculpture, we are given all the burden of reality to carry on our backs. With Séchas, things are clear: at first sight, it is a straightforward joke; in the end, it leads to awareness and a sharp comment on society."To me, art equals responsibility". That is probably why Alain Séchas creates works according to the human scale, immediately evoking the human body. But rather than using the human figure, he chose that of the cat: a round-eyed feline which never smiles. "Doing cats becomes like a trap, so that we identify a lot with it (...) and all the imagery of the cat reappears: the Egyptian cat, comics, caricature etc". Chosen as our anthropological equivalent, the cat plays various characters, often provocative, and becomes the intermediary between the artist and the viewer. More than a mere sculpture, he is a drawing with volume, a motif which endlessly changes: " I have always said that my work was about drawing; a small drawing is as important as a large sculpture and its making is as difficult for me. » Falsely naive, the work of Alain Séchas stands out and opens our eyes, like his cat: « Forcing the viewer to see is to me the very definition of art », he says. With no complacency whatsoever."Everyday in every way, I'm getting better and better".
Dans la vidéo, Rebels of the dance,* deux garçons dansent sur des chants traditionnels Kurdes dans le cadre confiné d'un distributeur de banque. Successivement timides, amusés puis fiers, les deux garçons semblent influencés par une troisième personne : l'artiste et sa caméra. Les jeux de regard dessinent ce trio et rappellent la situation de surveillance et de contrôle étatique dans laquelle se trouve la population Kurde. Alors que les chants sont de plus en plus rapides et rythmiques, le distributeur automatique devient progressivement le simple décor de la scène, perdant ainsi sa fonction propre. En faisant triompher la musique et la danse comme le nouveau langage du pouvoir, l'artiste juxtapose l'identité locale à la dimension internationale de la ville et du pays. Cette simple performance fait également écho à la situation géographique et politique de la ville de Batman, dont la terre est une ressource de pétrole importante, et une richesse dont les habitants de ne bénéficient pas. *Variation d'une émission télévisée présentant 90 danseurs folklores :'Sultans of the Dance' qui fut un grand succès en Turquie.
The work BRB is a 30 min. journey in the new game world of Second Life (“SL”). Consistent with Segal’s work with the projected image, this video was shot using a virtual in-world camera, with the footage later being transformed by a software custom designed by the artist. The video explores the idea of masks we wear in SL and real life (“RL”), and the differences in communication within those two worlds. When somebody "speaks," his or her avatar is seen typing, a mechanical ticking sound is heard, and words appear as text on the screen, strengthening the feeling that the conversation is taking place inside of our head. The video creates a new relation to the body and a new form of intimacy. We seem to engage this new form by chance, using the game's search engine Segal’s avatar sometimes appears with a Google search page as a mask, perhaps as a salute to another icon of cyber culture. With BRB, roaming in SL is like wandering inside our collective sub-conscious.
Puits est un anneau constitué d'éléments de terre crue, réalisés à l'échelle des mains du sculpteur. Guillaume Leblon se réapproprie la tactilité de l'argile, matériau privilégié de la sculpture, que l'on retrouve également dans  « Raum » (mur en moellons, 2006), dans « National monument » (cube de terre suintant, 2006), et dans  « Notes » (vidéo dans laquelle de la terre glaise est déversée dans l'atelier de l'artiste, 2007).  L'oeuvre peut suggérer un univers domestique révolu, à l'image des 700 puits de Mohenjo-daro, florissante ville de la civilisation de l'Indus au IIème millénaire av JC (Pakistan, cf. Lien) . La forme des briques avec un côté plus étroit correspondant au diamètre interne du puits, a été inventée sur ce site. Chez Guillaume Leblon, cette forme devient une réminiscence ; comme l'a développé Aby Warburg, les formes survivent et réapparaissent à travers les siècles et les lieux. L'oeuvre fait signe vers l'idée de puits dont elle mime la forme, tout en interrogeant la valeur d'usage cet objet par son caractère non fonctionnel : l'esquisse en terre crue ne résisterait pas à l'eau ; le trou abyssal est remplacé par un espace délimité avec les briques, auquel le spectateur peut se mesurer. Peut être le puits est-il la métaphore d'une ouverture de l'atelier vers le monde ? L'artiste introduit, dans la sculpture,  le sentiment de fragilité : entre équilibre instable et effondrement menaçant.
Cette oeuvre textile cite et détourne le drapeau à fond rouge et étoile centrale du Front de Libération National du Kurdistan (ERNK, soit une organisation militaire associée au PKK, fondée en 1985 et dissoute en 2000), et non le drapeau national du Kurdistan. L'artiste s'y intéresse dès 1994, au moment de la destruction de la ville de Lice par l'armée turque et de l'expulsion du PKK de l'Allemagne. Le drapeau a eu une forte visibilité dans les médias, qui est aujourd'hui moindre.   L'artiste a éclairci le rouge jusqu'au rose et en a évidé le cercle central, questionnant ainsi le rôle de l'emblème comme signe de représentation d'un groupe. Ce geste interroge le pouvoir exercé par une symbolique politique actuelle, capable de fixer l'essence éphémère de la couleur pendant un instant historique qui peut durer des décennies ou des siècles. Eclaircir et découper, c'est en retrouver la complexité. « New Kurdish flag 01 » est aussi une réflexion sur le statut du drapeau: objet de propagande activé dans la rue lors de différentes performances, avant d'être muséifié dans un cadre en 2005, selon un glissement sémantique. Le tissu acquiert une dimension politique, comme développé dans l'exposition « Textiles Art and the Social Fabric » du MUHKA d'Anvers.
 Map 1969-2005, affiche collée sur le mur, questionne l'espace dans sa relation aux sciences de la géographie. Sur un fond rouge, a été tracé en blanc et à main levée une image qui fait référence à l'esthétique des cartes de géographie. Map 1969-2005 n'est pas une carte fidèle des Etats-Unis, mais une cartographie qui mélange, superpose et confond des éléments hétérogènes : Oregon, Lake Superior, San Francisco, Cheyene, Missouri, Zuni, Navajo, Texas, Shawee, Colorado, Piegan, Canada, Miami, etc.« Le cas de 'Map (1969-2005)' est intéressant. Dans le même espace, on a le dessin initial et sa représentation. Chacun exige une lecture spécifique, et chaque lecture diffère » selon Gean Moreno. Map 1969-2005 est une image critique, par les décalages que l'oeuvre introduit entre la géographie et l'identité des hommes en fonction des espaces. L'oeuvre rejoue le mythe de l'exploration du territoire américain.
The half-length portrait of Joe Shirley presents a man with a great presence, wearing several items that point to ancestral Native American culture. In this photograph, which is relatively poor in information, the projection screen in the background acts as a clue about the event: Bruno Serralongue went to the second phase of the 'Sommet Mondial sur la Société de l’Information' (or SMSI, World Summit on Information Society, in Tunis in November 2005). This portrait echoes another picture in the same series (Native Peoples Claim Their Right to Participate in the Information Society) in which Joe Shirley is just a silhouette amongst the speakers, whereas here he occupies the entire frame. The strange impression that the model is posing for press photographers – and not for an artist making a portrait – reveals the staging of the event along the lines of the 'discourse of order' (Michel Foucault). In addition, the painting format introduces a different reading to that of a press photo. The artist questions the point of view and the space: “What distance should be adopted to face an event ? […] In my view, when using a different tool like a photographic chamber, there is necessarily a greater distance. […] In documentary photography, there is this idea of adjusting the distance, so that one cannot see too much or too little. One needs to find a distance within which the photographed person or event can 'speak'”.
Un voyage en Mer du Nord est composé de 6 éléments. Les images montrent la mer agitée, avec de grandes déferlantes. La vague écume, se gonfle, éclate. La grande taille des images, format poster, nous prend à corps, la vague nous happe, rendant sonore son déferlement et nous roulant d'une image à l'autre. L'horizon dégagé, dessine une ligne, continuité d'une image à l'autre. Les vagues sont traitées dans une sorte de all over. leur massivité accentue l'aspect sculptural du sujet. L'artiste, par le tirage, a recomposé l'image, alignant l'horizon pour faire coïncider les points. Le procédé reste simple et participe à la construction d'une image mentale, archétypale. La vision que Lempert nous propose est celle d'un monde intact et virginal. Toute son oeuvre nous donne la sensation de l'éphémère, de l'insaisissable, de l'effleurement.
 This photograph is part of the series titled "Iris Tingitana project" (2007) focusing on the disappearance of the iris. If Yto Barrada was initially interested in the architectural heritage of the city, today the core of her research focuses on risks around landscape and its heritage. The iris, found bordering the city, carries the name of the city, and is an emblem of Tangier. This flower grows in the most improbable and resistant situations such as vacant land and construction sites. Now on roadsides, next to iris flowers grow geraniums, like in standardized European resorts. This photograph depicts a child proudly sporting a crown made of iris flowers in a deprived area. In traditional iconography, and especially in Catholic traditions, the iris, like the lily, is a royal symbol. This child reminds us of portraits from seventeenth century Dutch painting, in which flowers symbolize vanity. Despite the intense and interrogative look of the boy, one cannot help but think of the boy in a symbolized garden of Eden – a paradise lost. 
In this photographic series, Yto Barrada was interested in the logos of the buses that travel between North Africa and Europe. They become like abstract paintings that recall Modernist formal experimentation. They are somehow symptomatic of the circulation of goods and people that is made to sound so abstract. The commentaries of two Moroccan children that accompany the images reminds us about the fact that everyday candidates to emigration try to spot these buses that will cross the Strait. Many children hide there and undertake long illicit journeys. As is often the case in her photographs, Yto Barrada chose a square format that conveys immobility despite the reference to transport. They are flat, without perspective, like the numerous walls visible in her work. The loss of depth in things ensures that any pain consciously stays separate from the beauty of the images.
« Le diptyque "Formation" est une incursion de Baumgartner dans l'imagerie de la guerre. Alors qu'elle regardait un documentaire télévisé sur la Seconde Guerre mondiale, elle fut frappée par la nature extraordinaire du film couleur et décida de faire un enregistrement vidéo de l'écran. Les deux plans qui en sont tirés représentent les ombres projetées au sol par les avions et le scintillement du soleil sur leurs fuselages d'acier. Bien sûr, les plans suivants montraient les ravages destructeurs causés par le mitraillage de leur cible en Allemagne, mais Baumgartner n'était pas intéressée par cet aspect. C'était la beauté des images qui la fascinait : les tons, les formes et la vitesse. Les images de la Seconde Guerre mondiale, vues avec des années de distance et dans la sûreté du foyer, sont devenues mythiques. Elles transmettent un héritage historique auquel les jeunes générations se sentent peu liées personnellement. Elles n'ont plus le pouvoir de choquer et sont entrées dans le champ de l'esthétique. [...]Les images que nous voyons au travers de l'écran de télévision sont esthétisées et leur signification est en quelque sorte neutralisée. [L'artiste] les désarme encore davantage par le biais de Photoshop et ensuite, en transposant l'image en xylogravure. L'image finale est bien loin de provoquer le sentiment ou l'expérience de la capacité destructrice des machines de guerre. »1

1. Extrait de Jeremy Lewison, « At the Still Point of the Turning World », in Christiane Baumgartner, édité par Johan Deumens, 2007, p. 43

Message to the Extraterrestrials (2007) est une installation constituée d’un projecteur de diapositives qui projette des images à l’intérieur d’un télescope. Par un savant jeu de miroirs, celles-ci se reflètent puis sont projetées à travers une fenêtre ouverte, vers le monde extérieur. La fonction du télescope est inversée et transformée de récepteur à émetteur de lumière. Les images projetées proviennent du ‘Golden Record’ produit pour les navettes spatiales Voyager 1 et Voyager 2 et avaient pour fonction d’informer les extraterrestres de la vie et de la culture sur Terre. La capacité ou l’incapacité d’un extraterrestre à comprendre les images diffusées est métaphorisée dans l’oeuvre de Keller par la dégradation infligée à l’image à travers ses multiples réfractions, d’un miroir à l’autre.
Berlin Remake (2005) combine des extraits de films d'Allemagne de l'Est avec les images tournées par l'artiste à Berlin. Lors d'un séjour à Berlin, l'artiste a retrouvé les lieux dans lesquels les films officiels étaient tournés et juxtapose les images dans une double projection synchronisée. On y voit donc Berlin entre 1945 et 1989 d'un côté et Berlin en 2004 d'un autre. Le contraste entre les deux est troublant, étonnant et étrange (Unheimlich dirait Freud). L'histoire est à la fois continue et en rupture. C'est comme si l'artiste refaisait les films mais sans personnages, ni histoire ; c'est en quelque sorte une méditation sur l'absence en même temps qu'une exposition des changements à Berlin. Elle utilise aussi un extrait du dernier film tourné sous le régime communiste. La scène se situe dans un endroit qui  a été complètement reconstruit depuis. Au début, le film lui-même a l'air d'être une reconstitution d'un ancien film d'Allemagne de l'Est, mais au fil de la projection, il s'agit plus d'une comparaison que d'une reconstruction. Le film est à la fois une recherche du temps perdu et le temps retrouvé.
Dans l'installation, vous êtes au coeur de l'espace bicéphale reflétant les recherches menées par Goldin+Senneby au cours de leur résidence à Paris. Ici, deux événements historiques sont confrontés, l'un datant de la fin des années 1930 et l'autre du début des années 1950. Dans l'un des espaces, vous vous trouvez face à la carte de la forêt de Marly où la société secrète « Acéphale», organisée autour de Georges Bataille, avait l'habitude de se réunir pour célébrer notamment le régicide de Louis XVI. Quelques années plus tard, Georges Bataille écrivait La Part maudite (1949). Dans cet essai, il décrit une société d'abondance dans laquelle pratiquer le potlatch et sacrifier l'excédent d'énergie et de richesses constituent les ressorts véritables de l'équilibre économique. Dans un second espace, vous êtes témoin de l'émergence de l'Eurodollar au début de la Guerre Froide, lorsque les banques soviétiques et chinoises déposaient leurs dollars en Europe, à la BCEN (EUROBANK), connue aujourd'hui comme la VTB Bank à Paris. Le dollar échappait alors à la juridiction territoriale et financière américaine, transformant la nature même de la monnaie qui passa d'une forme symbolique à une forme virtuelle. La monnaie entrait dans le nouvel espace de l'extériorité, échappant au contrôle d'un Etat souverain. La monnaie était décapitée. Ce sont là des faits. Des faits profondément entremêlés dans une fiction intitulée Looking for Headless, publiée par le duo d'artistes Goldin+Senneby. Dans ce roman policier, articulé autour d'un meurtre (par décapitation bien sûr), le narrateur part aux Bahamas à la recherche de la société offshore « Headless Ltd ». Pour écrire Looking for Headless, l'écrivain anonyme engagé par Goldin+Senneby, utilise des documents envoyés par les artistes  correspondances, dossiers, enregistrements  et décrit les différentes présentations artistiques du projet qui, depuis 2007, prend la forme de conférences, de lectures, de vidéos et d'expositions.Dans leur projet à Kadist Art Foundation, Goldin+Senneby soutiennent une hypothèse ténue mais très précise : l'émergence de l'Eurodollar, puis de la sphère financière offshore peut-elle constituer ce vide dans lequel la monnaie disparaît, réalisant cette même « consumation » des richesses évoquée par Bataille dans « La Part maudite » Et si cela est le cas, « Headless Ltd » peut-elle être l'incarnation contemporaine de la société secrète du même nom « Acéphale » ou s'agit-il d'une pure coïncidence Headless est un projet artistique omnivore, à plusieurs têtes, pour lequel les artistes Goldin+Senneby ont soustraité le développement à plusieurs personnages dans le roman, et à de véritables professionnels dans la réalité : un écrivain, un géographe économiste, une scénographe, un graphiste et même des institutions artistiques. 
In Fiction on Auction, the site of the auction is used to stage a fiction where the right to appear as character in Looking for Headless is offered to the highest bidder: the name of the successful biddder as registered for the auction will form the name or identity of the character appearing in the novel.
Looking for Headless is written by the fictitious author K.D and tells the story of two artists Simon Goldin and Jakob Senneby who collaborate with an author, John Barlow. Goldin and Senneby investigate an offshore company on the Bahamas called Headless Ltd whilst Barlow writes a docu-fictional murder-mystery, also called Headless, based on these investigations. The three protagonists become increasingly entangled in the world of offshore business, while speculating about the possible connections between Headless Ltd and the secret society known as Acéphale ( from the Greek term, acephalus, meaning headless) founded by George Bataille and his circle of friends connected to the College de Sociologie in Paris in the late 1930s.
Goldin and Senneby have created a series of exhibition projects in parallel with Looking for Headless which examine elements of the novel, including the identity of Headless Ltd, and explore the juridical construction of off-shore financial centres as strategies of withdrawal from public visibility.
Fiction on Auction is the 4th project in Offer and Exchange: Sites of Negotiation in Contemporary Art (2008-2010): a series of site specific commissions curated by Daniel McClean & Lisa Rosendahl.
En 1978, Jean-Luc Godard et Anne-Marie Miéville réalisent pour la télévision: France/tour/détour/deux/enfants. Proposant de recenser le mode de vie des Français, durant 12 épisodes de 26 minutes, un petit garçon et une petite fille sont d'abord interrogés à tour de rôle sur leur quotidien. Elargissant le champ de l'entretien, les interrogations de Godard et Miéville formulent progressivement un questionnement amenant les protagonistes à se penser en tant que sujet dans l'histoire du monde, à «se vivre et se voir à la télévision» avec un point de vue critique. Trente ans après Godard et Miéville, les deux artistes initient le projet d'une série de quatre épisodes intitulée France, détours et partent là où ils sont invités «interroger la France» afin de proposer une réflexion à partir de la question du vivre ensemble. Le premier épisode a été realize en 2009 à la Cité du Mirail, un grand ensemble conçu par l'architecte Candilis dans les années 1960 aux abords de Toulouse. Le second épisode (coproduit par la Fondation Kadist et la société de production L'âge d'or) se déroule en banlieue parisienne, à Pierrefitte, avec des collégiens décrocheurs et les responsables de l'AFPAD (Association pour la formation, la prévention et l'accès au droit). Ici la jeunesse qu'ils présentent avec ses origines sociales diverses ne confirme pas tout à fait les clichés que les médias et les politiques essaient de créer. Pour ce travail, Moser et Schwinger suivent l'hypothèse de Jacques Rancière selon laquelle «le réel doit être fictionné pour être pensé». 
La vidéo Character Witness se présente comme un discours composé à partir d’extraits d’autobiographies de personnages politiques célèbres. L’artiste a extrait de chaque ouvrage un épisode lié à l’enfance et une autre partie décrivant un événement ou discours politique. Dans la plupart des cas, le premier fait office d’alibi ou d’explication du second. Un auteur spécialisé dans l’écriture de discours a réunit les extraits et trois acteurs délivraient le texte sur scène pour le public. Les autobiographies sélectionnées comptent des figures historiques telles que Malcolm X, Hillary Clinton, Margaret Thatcher et Ariel Sharon.
L’ installation de Jonas Staal est basée sur l’interprétation d’une thèse de 344 pages rédigée par Fleur Agema en 2004 et intitulée “Closed Architecture”. L’auteur de ce texte est le bras droit de Geert Wilderds au Parti pour la Liberté ; il s’agit de la description d’un ambitieux modèle de système carcéral, tourné vers la réhabilitation des prisonniers lors d’un processus en quatre phases. L’œuvre de Staal prend la forme d’un livre, d’un plan et d’une visite virtuelle en 3D de l’imaginaire social d’un actuel membre du gouvernement néerlandais. A travers un dispositif analytique, cette œuvre méticuleuse révèle les perspectives de planification politique et architecturale d’une nouvelle classe populiste d’hommes politiques de droite. 
C'est à Oxford que Raphaël Zarka découvre les manuscrits scientifiques d'Abraham Sharp, un astronome anglais du 18ème siècle dont l'ouvrage « Geometry Improved» fut pour Raphaël le sujet d'un nouvel ensemble de photos et de sculptures. Sharp y dessine une infinité de combinaisons possibles permettant de réaliser des polyèdres à partir d'un cube de bois - la figure la plus complexe permet de réaliser une forme parfaite de 120 facettes. Les études de Sharp ont donc abouti dans ce manuscrit, mais n'avait pas de fonction en soi. Sharp, comme l'artiste obsédé par ces formes pures, crée des objets esthétiques, des sculptures géométriques. En reproduisant les dessins de Sharp par un procédé de pyrogravure sur des poutres de chêne, Raphaël Zarka semble vouloir vérifier les théories du scientifique. Mais l'artiste s'arrêtera à mi-chemin, il donnera le tracé sur la forme brute au spectateur qui n'aura qu'un pas de plus à franchir pour obtenir un polyèdre parfait. Place à l'imagination ou peut-être au temps qui pourrait finir par suivre les tracés pour mieux fendre le bois.Contrairement à certaines oeuvres de Raphaël, il ne s'agit pas de réplique ou de reproduction mais plutôt d'une application, d'une réalisation qui, bien qu'incomplète, semble avoir fait naître quelque chose.Oeuvre à la fois énigmatique, discrète bien qu'imposante par sa taille, les deux photographies de l'ouvrage « Geometry Improved » peuvent compléter l'ensemble.L'oeuvre a été présentée à l'exposition "L'anomalie d'Ararat" à Châtillon-sur-Marne en 2008. Elle a ensuite été exposée au Printemps de Septembre à Toulouse en 2008 et dans son exposition personnelle "Geometry Improved" au Museum of Modern Art d'Oxford en 2009.
Dans Beyond Guilt les deux artistes réalisent un portrait en trois volés de leur génération. A Tel Aviv. dans des espaces clos, comme les toilettes de bar ou des chambres d'hôtel, elles créent des situations dans lesquelles les participants répondent a des questions, se décrivent et se livrent. La caméra est à la main, il y a très peu de montage pour un résultat parfois brut. Cette caméra devient l'objet témoin qui s'échange entre les participants et les artistes dans une relation de pouvoir et de séduction. Ces personnes que l'on rencontre trouveront facilement leur semblables dans d'autres pays occidentaux  Ce qui est finalement troublant, c'est cette contradiction même entre une légèreté de vie tournée vers le plaisir, le sexe, ou la transgression et une forme de violence dans laquelle on perçoit les traumatismes d'une guerre permanente, d'un conflit assumé et parfois revendiqué. C'est justement au delà d'une culpabilité que cette génération survie.
Report of the Legal Subcommittee is a print featuring a map of the stars, together with a found transcription of a recent United Nations meeting in which various international delegations declare frustration with their 40-year-old, ongoing efforts to devise a legal definition of outer space. This admission seems to hold a rich poetic potential, the human attempts to bureaucratize and control outer space seemingly frustrated by the sublime scale and mystery of its infinite depths.
This image is an extract from a notebook in the archives of doctor Fakhouri that lists the cars that have been used for bombs between 1975 and 1991. Each page of the notebook contains a collage of an image of a car with the same make, model and color as the exploded car with a text in Arabic that gives the details of the place, time and date of the explosion, the number of people in the accident, the perimeter of destruction, the weight and the type of explosive. The images of the cars made visible are only equivalents since the cars that actually exploded are totally destroyed. Doctor Fakhouri made reconstitutions while the information collected in the media itself is subject to interpretation. The composition of these images in space is another distancing from the real fact. It is a little known fact that Lebanese historians were also gamblers during the war. They met every Sunday at the race courses. Race after race, the historians were positioned behind the press photographers who were there to take a picture of the winning horse passing the finishing line. The historians betted on how many fractions of seconds before or after passing the line the photograph would be taken. That is to say that no photo showed the horse on the finishing line. Each page of the notebook contains an image of the horse passing the finish line cut out of the Annahar newspaper on the following day. It features the annotations of doctor Fakhouri on the length and duration of the race, on the winning horse and his timing, his average speed, the initials of the different historians and their bets, the time between the snapshot and the passage of the finishing line, a very brief description of the winning historian (here the linguist). These documents provoke questions about historical fact. Why are there no images of the precise moment when the horse passes the finishing line? Does the press authorize the reproduction of false information? Conscious of the impossibility of capturing the exact moment, the historians bet not on the horses but on the photographer's margin of error. The evidence about an event is not necessarily linked to the production of an objective document. There can be no certain objectivity with photographic material.
Dans les années 1980, en parcourant un marché aux puces parisien, Barbara Bloom tombe sur une aquarelle anonyme (datant d'environ 1960), une étude vraisemblablement réalisée par un décorateur d'intérieur pour l'aménagement d'une chambre à coucher. L'artiste voit dans ce décor quelque chose qu'elle estime de typiquement parisien. L'aquarelle est encadrée avec un passe-partout en carton. En soulevant celui-ci, Bloom découvre tous les essais de couleur et de touche dans les marges du dessin. Ces détails qui ne sont pas sensés être visibles, retiennent son attention.  L'installation The Bedroom prend cette étude comme point de départ. Barbara Bloom transpose en quelques sortes cette chambre fictive — on ne saura jamais si le décor fut réalisé — en installation tridimensionnelle. L'oeuvre présente plusieurs éléments liés à la perception de cette image : une reproduction de cette étude, la reproduction d'une autre aquarelle qui figure dans le décor, et un tapis reprenant le sol de la chambre dépeinte (détail du tapis sous le lit, ombre de la chaise) et l'étendant aux touches de peinture présentes sur les bords de l'étude. Les deux reproductions sont accrochées au mur, peint en jaune clair pour reprendre la couleur des murs dans l'étude. Au sol, le tapis finalise l'aspect domestique de l'installation tout en devenant lui-même un tableau expressionniste quasi-abstrait. L'installation joue une réflexion picturale en mêlant les différents plans : avec l'effet de perspective reporté sur le tapis, les essais d'aquarelle prennent autant d'importance que les éléments « réels » et deviennent comme un motif décoratif.
Le film Temps mort découle lui d'un échange  réciproque de mini-séquences vidéos qui seront mises bout à bout au  montage. Plans télécommandés d'un quotidien carcéral, l'ordinaire d'un  lavabo, d'une plante verte ou d'une assiette de pâtes au beurre ; contre  des scènes d'une vie à l'extérieur, des rues de Paris, d'une nuit  d'amour ou encore de paysages de bord de mer.  Le dialogue par texto  entre le détenu et l'artiste rend compte de cette situation d'exception  et du rapport d'échange, de partage et peut-être de dépendance qui  s'instaure. Plus les liens se tissent entre les deux hommes,  plus la  confrontation entre la vie à l'intérieur et à l'extérieur des murs  s'intensifie.   Tout comme ces travaux précédents, il est intéressant de  les mettre en lien avec les documentaires véhiculés par les médias, sur  la violence dans les banlieues ou le milieu carcéral par exemple.
Temps mort résulte d'une année d'échanges d'images fixes et de vidéos, via des téléphones portables entre l'artiste et une personne détenue au sein d'un établissement pénitentiaire. Contre des recharges, Mohamed Bourouissa dirige à distance des mises en scènes à reconstruire dans la structure même de la prison. Il indique et précise au moyen de croquis et d'instructions le type de plans qu'il souhaite recevoir, pour ensuite les imprimer, les re-photographier avant de les développer à échelle 1 afin d'être au plus près de la faible définition des images initiales.
Dans We only move when something changes !!!, Olaf Breuning compose un portrait - posé et interrogateur - d'un  groupe d'altermondialistes, portant un nez rouge de clown, dans une mise en scène qui évoque une manifestation. Comme dans Easter Bunnies (photographie des Moai de l'Ile de Pâques avec des oreilles et des dents de lapin supportées par des échafaudages, 2004), l'artiste introduit des objets, apparemment extérieurs à l'image, dans le cadre même de sa prise de vue. Le détail des nez rouges, qui ponctuent l'image, réinterroge le sens par l'introduction de l'absurde dans des questions contemporains de portée mondiales. « Un grand écart à la fois critique et ludique qui prend garde à ne pas réaliéner ses sujets. Les jeunes militants altermondialistes ne sont pas dépréciés, ils sont plutôt imagés dans un moment de désarroi qui ne semble pas extérieur à Olaf Breuning lui-même. La dysorthographie de 'when' crée un effet de mise en abîme supplémentaire. 'Wehen', en langue germanique, désigne l'action de flotter au vent, ainsi que les douleurs de l'enfantement. Un lapsus étonnamment en phase avec le sujet de l'image, l'idée du déchirement de la jeune génération écartelée entre ses incertitudes et son envie d'agir » (Frederic Maufras « RR ready realistik / Olaf Breuning », « Zéro deux », n°28, hiver 2003-2004).
Un personnage de dos se tient devant un paysage de montagnes, aride et majestueux : Der Wanderer 3 revisite le thème de l'homme face à la nature cher à la peinture romantique et aux toiles de Caspar David Friedrich en particulier. « De lui, j'ai repris le thème du personnage tournant le dos au spectateur. J'aime le dos. Le dos est calme, discret, poli, et distant. Il ne défie pas le spectateur comme le regard le fait, le spectateur regarde le même paysage que le modèle, mais ils ne se dérangent pas. »  Avec la série « The New Painting » réalisée entre 2000 et 2004, Elina Brotherus confronte le medium photographique aux codes de la peinture classique, de ses sujets à son esthétique, et notamment ceux du paysage et de la représentation du nu.
Matthew Buckingham nous place face à une narration en prise directe avec un lieu hautement symbolique aux Etats-Unis, le Mémorial du Mont Rushmore*. Il élabore une narration historiographique de ce lieu pour basculer dans le domaine de la science-fiction en proposant une photographie du Mémorial comme il devrait apparaître dans 500 000 ans. Les effigies de Washington, Jefferson, Lincoln et Roosevelt sont devenues méconnaissables. Dans les textes qui se déploient d’une façon chronologique, on apprend entre autre que le sculpteur Gutzon Borglum faisait partie du Ku Klux Klan.  Buckingham raconte des histoires, réelles et fictives, pour mettre à l’épreuve leur validité ou leur exemplarité pour le présent. Le dispositif de l’installation avec l’image du Mémorial  peut nous amener à réfléchir sur notre rôle dans l'écriture des nouveaux chapitres de cette histoire.* Le mémorial national situé dans l'État du Dakota du Sud aux États-Unis, est une sculpture monumentale en granite réalisée à partir de 1925, haute de 18 mètres, représentent quatre des présidents les plus marquants de l'histoire américaine.   
L'herbier (petit Trianon) se compose de quatre dessins « réalistes »  de végétaux, sérigraphiés sur PVC transparent. Basée sur une pratique du dessin comme étude, cette oeuvre fait écho aux nombreux carnets de croquis de l'artiste, mais aussi à la série de « Magnolia » (dessins dont le trait est traduit en sculpture par un fil de métal peint, 2008). « Le sujet est une sorte de minimum culturel (le végétal). L'herbier tend à ce minimum là » selon Stéphane Calais. Cette oeuvre s'inscrit dans la tradition de la peinture de la nature morte, oscillant entre prouesse technique et vanité. La métaphore du végétal comme réseau et comme ornement est récurrente dans son oeuvre : typographie arborescente, peinture murale (« Le haricot magique du petit Jack », Caisse des dépôts et des consignations de Paris, 1997), sculpture de jardin (exposition « Garden are for people ! (& art for us!) », Abbaye de Maubuisson, 2005). Miroitement de la surface comme un glacis, légèreté de l'accrochage par des pinces, frémissement au moindre souffle, fragilité du sujet, contribuent à évoquer un esprit rococo. On peut tout à fait imaginer que L'Herbier aurait pu prendre place dans le Petit Trianon, (Ange Jacques Gabriel, jardin de Versailles, 1773), comme un point d'équilibre entre sobriété et richesse de l'ornement. Dans un entretien, l'artiste a parlé du fonctionnement de cette oeuvre comme celui d'un château de cartes, où tout est apparent et transparent : le tour est évident. Cependant, la superposition en un « bloc sédimentaire » des différentes feuilles fait naitre (par surprise) les images ; ces images légèrement brouillées ne peuvent pas se révéler de manière immédiate et limpide.
La vidéo Shangri-la fait référence à la cité mythique du roman de James Hilton « Lost Horizon » (1933), d'après laquelle Franck Capra a réalisé un film, où il est question d'éternelle jeunesse dans une cité du bonheur. En 1997, une petite ville d'une région agricole de Chine centrale, près de la frontière tibétaine, s'est autoproclamée le lieu qui avait inspiré Shangri-la. Rapidement, une douzaine d'autres villes de la même zone ont revendiquées être ce paradis sur terre, déclenchant une bataille marketing sans pitié, qui fit rage jusqu'à ce que le gouvernement intervienne. Le miroir, utilisé pour construire la maquette de la montagne, est fortement symbolique et revient souvent dans les oeuvres de l'artiste ; dans la littérature et les arts plastiques, il représente le passage entre la réalité et le monde du rêve, fait de projections et de désirs. Le travail de Patty Chang porte sur la réalité et la fiction inhérentes à un lieu existant à la fois dans son incarnation concrète et son mythe. Elle explore l'idée d'un voyage réel vers un lieu imaginaire. Cette oeuvre expose des contradictions : la recherche des racines et des traditions d'une ville aboutit à une falsification historique, et à des conflits culturels, dans un but touristique et financier.
Untitled est inspiré par le film "Opening night" de John Cassavetes avec Gena Rowlands dans lequel son rôle de femme déchue, angoissée par son âge rattrape peu à peu l'actrice. Ici il semble que l'on assiste au drame d'une famille recomposée, auquel il faut ajouter un adultère et finalement un meurtre.  Le décor de ce nouveau film quitte pour la première fois l'intérieur domestique pour occuper une scène de théâtre, l'espace de représentation par excellence. Les dialogues, les accessoires ou les mouvements de caméras bouleversent la frontière entre la scène et les coulisses, c'est l'envers du décor qui est mis en scène. Difficile de distinguer le devant du derrière, le texte récité de l'improvisation, les dialogues joués ou réels des acteurs. Comme dans ses autres films, on est spectateur d'une réalité construite et artificielle, mais l'élément théâtral complexifie notre rapport aux personnages. Sont-ils les acteurs d'une mise en scène ou de leur propre vie? Dans "Untitled", l'artiste va jusqu'au bout d'une fusion entre la théâtralité sur scène et dans la vie proposant finalement une performance permanente.  Lors de sa présentation à la Biennale de Venise, le film était projeté dans une boîte ouverte sur les côtés; le public était assis sur des gradins comme au-devant d'une scène de théâtre
On voit des lettres de l'alphabet grec qui scintillent sur le fond noir. A l'apparition de chaque lettre on entend un son. Chaque lettre correspond à une étoile dans le ciel. Des alphas, des betas, des gammas s'éparpillent dans l'espace. Le son  attribué à ces premières lettres est aigu, il sera de plus en plus grave pour la suite des lettres dans l'ordre alphabétique. La composition s'organise selon la classification des magnitudes qui attribue une lettre à chaque étoile d'une constellation. Un ordre cartographique est établi : des séquences de alphas de gammas de betas défilent simultanément. La position des lettres correspond à celle de l'étoile dans la carte du ciel du nord, son apparition à la distance de l'étoile précédente. La distance dans la carte est utilisée comme une donnée de temps : plus une étoile est proche de la suivante dans l'espace, plus elle y sera dans le temps.
Pour cette série, Philip-Lorca diCorcia a arpenté les environs de Santa Monica Boulevard à Los Angeles à la recherche de modèles, prêts à poser dans des chambres d'hôtel, selon des scénarios préparés à l'avance. « Je retournais dans la rue comme les clients ordinaires des prostitués. Je m'avançais et je leur disais : « Je veux vous prendre en photo, je vous paierai exactement ce que l'on vous paie pour une passe » » selon les mots de l'artiste. « Gérald Hughes (a.k.a Savage Fantasy); about 25 years old; Southern California; $50 » : nom, surnom, âge, lieu, tarif ; soit un titre descriptif manifestant une conscience aiguë des paramètres d'enregistrement et de la nature de l'acte photographique. DiCorcia porte un regard sur le cinéma hollywoodien en reprenant une construction par plans. La composition - de l'ordre du montage - fait se rencontrer par un jeu d'emboitement de cadres (porte, miroir, télévision, cadrage de la photographie) un prostitué et un présentateur Tv. La fixité de ce face à face confronte la sphère de l'intime à la sphère sociale. Un certain engagement et une dimension politique ressortent en filigrane de ce travail, surtout si on prend en compte que la série a été réalisée avec une bourse du National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) dans un contexte où la politique américaine était conservatrice. L'artiste construit « un fantasme désespéré du monde hollywoodien » (Peter Galassi) à travers une image «hiatus », entre monde de rêve et réalité inconfortable.
« John Kelsey : La pratique de Claire Fontaine semble tourner autour du mot 'étranger'... Peux-tu dire quelque chose sur ce concept - si ça en est un - et comment il informe (infecte) tes activités et tactiques ? Claire Fontaine : La série des néons en plusieurs langues 'Etrangers partout' (Foreigners Everywhere), par exemple, vient du nom d'un collectif d'anarchistes de Turin qui combat le racisme dans ses multiples manifestations. L'ambivalence de leur nom m'a fait penser aux effets qu'il pourrait avoir s'il avait été matériellement déplacé dans des lieux et des contextes différents. Il est clair qu'aujourd'hui l'immigration et l'émigration sont plus des simples épiphénomènes liés à l'économie. Ce sont des expériences existentielles et perceptives à part entière. Quant à l'étrangeté que nous pouvons tous ressentir devant un monde entièrement fabriqué et gouverné par des logiques insensées, elle peut certainement être un moteur pour la lutte. Dans l'idée de grève humaine il y a beaucoup de choses qui viennent de Brecht, de ce qu'il décrit comme un processus de « devenir étranger » aux rapports de pouvoir qui nous constituent, pour produire - dans cet intervalle du flux normal des choses - des événements. Je crois aussi que dans notre travail l'usage de différentes langues n'est pas une coquetterie. Il vient du fait d'être des gens qui sont nés ailleurs et sont partis sans une raison particulière si ce n'est que celle de ne plus être chez-soi. Dans l'usage d'une langue qui n'est pas la sienne propre se manifestent des contradictions, des rapports de force, des violences, que la langue maternelle noie ou émousse. La lutte avec le sens donne alors forme à ce que Deleuze et Guattari disent trouver chez Kafka, la« langue étrangère dans la langue » et au fond c'est bien celle-ci que les artistes cherchent à parler. Ce n'est que dans cette impropriété qui gît une promesse de communauté ». Claire Fontaine interviewée par John Kelsey, disponible sur le site de l'artiste
Mario Garcia Torres a découvert le travail de l'artiste Oscar Neuestern dans un article du journal Artnews daté de 1969. Cet article, qui constitue l'unique trace de son travail, est significatif du désintérêt de Neuestern de laisser son nom dans l'histoire, pour « défendre une activité artistique qui a peu, voir aucun intérêt de durer ». Oscar Neuestern pouvait uniquement se souvenir des 24 heures précédentes ; ainsi son existence et son oeuvre sont en perpétuel effacement et reconstruction. La pratique de ce dernier consistait « à laisser les choses se faire avec le temps et l'inconscient » ; il « ne craignait pas le vide » et recherchait l'absolu par des étapes de transparence et de symétrie. Il pensait l'atteindre par le « non-acte » ultime, c'est-à-dire créer à partir de rien. Dans une forme sans image, l'artiste a décidé de nous raconter l'histoire de cet artiste sur une série de diapositives qui évoluent du blanc au noir ; lui aussi a cherché à jouer avec l'opacité et la transparence même de la diapositive. The Transparencies of the Non-act, oeuvre visuellement silencieuse, interroge, à travers l'histoire de Neuestern, l'oeuvre, la création, le rôle de l'artiste ou la construction de notre histoire.
In 2008, Grassie was invited by the Whitechapel Gallery to document the transformation of some of its spaces. The artist chose to depict the space before and after, thus creating the series titled "After the Archive Collections Room." This group of paintings displays a space locked into time with its scaffolding and broom exposed, depicted just before an exhibition on a collection of archives.
En 1970, Julius Koller se fait connaître par la publication d’un second manifeste : U.F.O. Ce sigle deviendra la signature de l’artiste à travers laquelle, il cherche à faire comprendre sa vision du monde, son intérêt prononcé pour les mystères du cosmos. Demonstrative Cultural Situation 1 et 2 (U.F.O.), sont deux photographies emblématiques du travail de l’artiste qui a fondé et dirigé de 1971 à 1989 la galerie d’art contemporain « U.F.O. Gallery Ganek ». Installée au sommet du pic Ganek dans la chaîne des Hautes Tatras en Slovaquie, la « U.F.O. Gallery Ganek » représente un lieu fictionnel difficilement accessible. L’environnement naturel de haute montagne devient un espace culturel psychologique - un intermédiaire entre la Terre et le Paradis, d’où une nouvelle pensée artistique peut émerger.
Untitled (1992) responds to the same principles of an economy of means as the artist's actions and installations: three empty cardboard boxes which have contained photographic film are piled one on top of the other. Nevertheless there is a harmony in the assembly of forms, writing, colors, proportions; an aesthetic construction is carried by this contemporary still life. This work charts the passing of time: the cardboard yellows, the film becomes obsolete in the digital age. In a meta-artistic dimension, this sculpture could be a manifesto for Kovanda's work. His actions and installations have a particular link to the photographic medium: they can only exist for the contemporary spectator and as an artwork, through the records and documentation. The sculpture seems to contain potential artworks in gestation in the bottom of the box, like a mysterious photographic chamber, invisible to the eye.
Kovanda's 'discreet' actions (leaving a discussion in a rush, bumping into passers-by in the street, making a pile of rubbish and scattering it, looking at the sun until tears come…) are always documented according to the same format: a piece of A4 paper, a concise typewritten text, and sometimes a photograph taken by someone else. This action, walking abnormally slowly, questions the place of the individual within the space of a city with regards to social habits. Kovanda places himself slightly outside the regulated rhythm of the city walking. “A [certain] reading consists in analyzing the artist's micros-interventions which have taken place in the public sphere during the Soviet era in Prague specifically as political art which the artist refutes.” (extract from the journal Particules). Was he noticed as 'suspect'? His footsteps mime prudence, as if there was a potential risk underfoot. The title describes and at the same time renders poetic the artist's walk. Walking is equivalent to creating, according to Thierry Davila (Marcher, créer, éditions du Regard, 2007). A complex relation comes to be between the action, its documentation, and its audience, posing the question of their meaning. His works have been exhibited some thirty years after they took place for a 'second audience'. “I think that the message I was sending out was not intended for the people who were present when the actions happened at the concrete moment when they were taking place. The message was intended more for those who would read about them as actions. What I was interested in was something ordinary, something normal, that might happen that way. That’s what they were all about. For me, they don’t have any symbolic meaning”, according to the artist.
End of 2008, Pierre Leguillon presented at Kadist Art Foundation the first retrospective of the works of Diane Arbus (1923-1971) organized in France since 1980, bringing together all the images commissioned to the New York photographer by the Anglo-American press in the 1960s. This exhibition, destined to tour in various locations, presents the original pages of the magazines, including 'Harper's Bazaar', 'Esquire', 'Nova' and 'The Sunday Times Magazine'. As Pierre Leguillon states on the exhbition's publication: 'The mythology surrounding Diane Arbus' character is willingly set aside to offer a more neutral point of view on a more unfamiliar part of her work, although it was mass-distributed. Many of the characters portrayed in these commissioned works seem less sensational at first glance than the 'freaks' that made Diane Arbus' work so famous, since the retrospective MOMA organized in 1973 in New York, two years after her suicide. And yet, "leafing through" all her contributions for the press, the Diane Arbus "method", her installing the model in an environment in such a particular way, emerges obviously. Long sitting sessions, sometimes repeated, were destined to allow the model to « let go », while he never stopped fixing the camera, straight forward. It is no doubt their rigorous construction that enables these images, still today, to be contemporary.'
This video was filmed in the middle of the Zagreb fair which took place in the 1960s and 1970s under the rule of Tito. Tito created the fair to signify the exemplary economic exchange between the East and West. The film's setting takes place at the Italian pavilion, where several young people are seen sitting in cars, trying to repeat sentences in English. The Zagreb fair initiative may have seemed positive for the development of trade with the world and a brighter future beyond the borders of their country, however, the tone, the monotony and repetition, without conviction of the same phrases reveals the absurdity of the situation. Politically, Croatia, in this time was a candidate for Europe.  Economically the country has been in a long recession with an uncertain future for new generations. Time is suspended, the outlook has been blocked for an indefinable period.
« The Prisoner's Cinema » est un phénomène, décrit en neurologie comme une hallucination, et qui apparait après une absence prolongée d'affect visuel. Un écran aveugle sur lequel apparait des hallucinations se forme sur les yeux coupés de toute sollicitation visuelle. Le sujet peut voir cette projection, cependant l'impossibilité d'enregistrer ces images mentales transforme ce phénomène en une expérience intime et personnelle. En 1954, un scientifique a étudié ce syndrome sur des prisonniers enfermés dans des cellules obscures. C'est un phénomène qui est également sensible chez des conducteurs de camion pris dans une tempête de neige. Melvin Moti s'intéresse à la relation entre hallucination et formalisme. Des formes constantes et des formes géométriques apparaissent de manière récurrente. Une forme constante est une forme dont l'interprétation n'est pas basée sur une contingence culturelle, mais qui apparaît à différentes époques et dans différentes cultures ; des formes sans histoire et sans futur. The Prisoner's Cinema est composé d'images abstraites, des rayons de lumière traversant un vitrail, et des explications d'un scientifique décrivant sa vision après avoir subi une privation sensorielle pendant plusieurs jours. Il est ici question des origines du cinéma, de la création d'une image, du pouvoir imageant du sujet, de l'inconscient, de l'histoire de l'abstraction et du formalisme.
Il pleut, Paris, 1er juillet 2000, qui pourrait être le refrain d'une chanson, est le titre d'une photographie d'un moment minimal, une vision de piéton parisien, une fleur coupée gisant sur un trottoir moucheté de gouttes de pluie. Est-ce un moment capté sur le vif, ou une mise en scène? Il y a une forme de hiatus dans l'image ; les plans - motif et fond - associent une nature en pleine floraison, pure, fragile, éphémère avec le bitume gris et pesant. Au calme des gouttes de pluie dans « Il pleut, Paris, 1er juillet 2000 », répond le bouillonnement de « La Fontaine des Amoureux, Paris, 3 avril 2006 ».  Alors que le « Noeud coulant » (également dans la collection Kadist) proposait un chemin de pensée et de recherche, les éléments de cette photographie s'organisent de manière rhizomique. Les gouttes de pluie et les pétales de fleur forment un réseau de points, que le spectateur peut mentalement relier et recomposer. La première se serre, la seconde se disperse. Le motif tend à fusionner avec le fond pour ne créer qu'un seul plan. L'image tend à la planéité, un peu comme dans les tapisseries médiévales dites « millefleurs » ou dans les tissus à imprimé fleuri. Dans la série récente « Fleurs » (2008) l'artiste a photographié des fleurs des champs, en les plaçant devant des fonds colorés ce qui les extraient de leur cadre naturel bucolique.
La mise en oeuvre est très simple : sur une feuille de papier l'artiste a tracé deux boucles au feutre noir, puis a placé deux yeux à l'intersection des traits. Ces deux yeux, découpés dans une photographie, appartiennent au même regard. La première vertu d'un noeud coulant est sa simplicité : un noeud basique, qui nécessite une petite longueur de corde. Ce collage constitue « un dessin programmatique, une sorte de mode d'emploi », des oeuvre et des photographies de Moulène. Ne parle-t-on pas de manière commune de l'oeil du photographe ? Le noeud coulant pourrait être « une sorte de hiéroglyphe de la vision » (« Paragraphes pour Jean-Luc Moulène », ibid.) : le noeud de tout est l'oeil, le fil conducteur est le nerf optique, vecteur des informations. Ce collage questionne notre regard qui ne peut embrasser les deux yeux en même temps (littéralement regarder dans les yeux), comme dans la série Les filles d'Amsterdam (photographies de prostituées mettant sur le même plan visage et sexe). Dans un entretien, l'artiste analyse son oeuvre en proposant un scénario qui active le dessin : « en fait, c'est la question de la figure. Tracer, c'est toujours partager, et il se passe quelque chose d'assez étonnant quand ce tracé se reboucle : cette réflexivité produit la figure. Puis on s'aperçoit qu'en tirant sur les traits pour écarter les yeux, à un moment ils se trouvent bloqués ; et si on écarte les autres traits, les deux yeux finissent par se coller l'un à l'autre. C'est comme si ces yeux roulaient dans leurs propres orbites. [...] Et de fait, je crois que la pensée est dehors, qu'il n'y a pas de place pour elle dans la viande. Ce qui nous permet de penser, c'est l'autre, c'est l'espace social, c'est le dehors de notre corps ».
Head Box is not the representation of a space but a real space that remains in the domain of sculpture which the artist develops in parallel with his photographic practice. Created for an exhibition in Kitakyushu in Japan, it is painted green, a color that symbolizes life and creation in Japanese culture. Even though we are confronted with a hollow presence, this is above all a space to lodge a body in the vertical posture of the living. This form can appear like a refuge – an isolating booth – that allows one to be confronted with one's self, to construct a mental space. In the first instance, it can conjure up the formal questions posed in abstract art or minimalism, but, in fact, one quickly experiences it as an intimate space. It refers to architecture but remains far from any spectacular effect. There are also probably references to the history of relations between color and architecture.

Gabriel Orozco comments: "In the exhibition [Documenta 11, Kassel, 2002], I tried to connect with the photographs I took in Mali in July. I traveled to Mali for three weeks and took some photographs related to my work. They are very different, but there are links as the graveyard of Timbuktu, which I discovered during the trip. I found the cemetery because I was interested in pottery and ceramics. Research traditions of ceramics were the reason for my trip to Africa in Mali, to understand, learn, appreciate what they did, because it is an important tradition in Mali. And then I discovered the cemetery in Timbuktu. It is interesting to see how the work will take you to discover places you would never have discovered if you did not work. So the link between what you do and what you find in a second time is very interesting. In this context, the exhibition presents one hand tables with ceramics. In addition, photographs of Mali are on the walls. There is no direct link. But it is obvious that the same person who is interested in these things. And there are many reasons for this.
« Dans l'exposition [Documenta 11, Kassel, 2002], j'ai essayé d'établir des liens avec les photographies que j'ai prises au Mali en juillet. J'ai voyagé au Mali pendant trois semaines et j'ai pris quelques photographies en lien avec mon travail. Elles sont très différentes, mais il existe des liens comme le cimetière de Tombouctou, que j'ai découvert pendant le voyage. J'ai découvert ce cimetière parce que je m'intéressais à la poterie et à la céramique. La recherche des traditions de la céramique était la raison de mon voyage en Afrique au Mali, pour comprendre, apprendre, apprécier ce qu'ils faisaient, car c'est une tradition importante au Mali. Et puis, j'ai découvert ce cimetière à Tombouctou. Il est intéressant de voir comment le travail vous amène à découvrir des endroits que vous n'auriez jamais découverts si vous ne faisiez pas ce travail. Donc, le lien entre ce que vous faites et ce que vous découvrez dans un second temps est très intéressant. Dans cette optique, l'exposition présente d'une part des tables avec des céramiques. D'autre part, des photographies du Mali sont accrochées aux murs. Il n'y a pas de lien direct. Mais, il est évident que c'est la même personne qui s'intéresse à ces choses. Et il y a beaucoup de raisons pour cela. »    
In order to make If I dig a very deep hole (2007) the artist looked for the extreme geographical opposite of Paris when drawing a straight line throughout the globe.Then, he went to this place, the Chatham Islands in New Zealand, to photograph the full moon before coming back to Paris to take a picture of that same moon.
This work brings together two diametrically opposite places, two singular experiences, two different moments and the same full moon.
Pour cette œuvre Pratchaya Phinthong s’est procuré 5 000 euros pour les échanger contre des dollars Zimbabwéens, la monnaie la plus dévaluée dans le monde, qui n’a plus cours aujourd’hui. Le processus de production de cette œuvre a pris le temps de ces transactions financières avant de prendre la forme d’un volume de billets de banque. Il a placé les dollars de manière à former une grille géométrique qui rappelle la sculpture minimale. La sculpture s’est constituée dans une dimension performative dépendante d’évènements humains et économiques extérieurs. En menant une réflexion sur la valeur de l’art à partir d’une monnaie sans valeur, il réalise une œuvre échangeable sur le marché de l’art.
Pratchaya Phinthong a réalisé quatre photographies de fragments de météorites dont les faces ont été polies pour refléter le ciel. Posées sur le sol, sur ce qui semble être un sol naturel fait de bous de bois, la forme de la météorite disparaît pour laisser voir les reflets des nuages, tel un trou dans la terre.    
Pratchaya Phinthong a réalisé quatre photographies de fragments de météorites dont les faces ont été polies pour refléter le ciel. Posées sur le sol, sur ce qui semble être un sol naturel fait de bous de bois, la forme de la météorite disparaît pour laisser voir les reflets des nuages, tel un trou dans la terre.    
Armless, dessin exécuté rapidement, suggère, de manière elliptique, un univers inquiétant. Une silhouette humaine est en suspension dans l'espace de la feuille de papier. Dans un jeu macabre et joyeux, le buste est animé d'un mouvement de balançoire si violent, que les lignes du dessin prises dans cette énergie ne figurent plus rien du corps. Le trait noir pulvérulent du fusain ne circonscrit plus la figure ; les formes se décomposent et se dissolvent dans le blanc de la feuille. Par le tracé de ses dessins ou par la surface de ses sculptures, l'artiste génère des moments d'indistinction entre la forme des idées et le chaos de la matière. Le personnage évoque tout à la fois une marionnette, un pendu, un écorché. Les jambes restent la seule attache du corps au monde, à ce corps dépourvu de bras, et de tête. Comme dans L'homme qui marche (bronze, 1900-1907) de Rodin, sculpture sans bras et sans tête, ce corps « mutilé » questionne un rapport des sens au monde.
"The Lebanese wars of the past three decades affected Lebanon's residents physically and psychologically: from the hundred thousand plus who were killed; to the two hundred thousand plus who were wounded; to the million plus who were displaced; to the even more who were psychologically traumatized. Needless to say, the wars also affected Lebanese cities, buildings and institutions. It is clear to me today that these wars also affected colours, lines, shapes and forms. Some of these were affected in a material way and, like burned books or razed monuments, are physically destroyed and lost forever. Others, like looted treasure or politically compromised artworks, remain physically intact but are removed from view, possibly never to be seen again. And yet other colours, lines, shapes and forms, sensing the forthcoming danger, deploy defensive measures: they hide, take refuge, hibernate, camouflage and dissimulate. I expected them to do so in the artworks of past artists. I thought their paintings, sculptures, films, photographs, and drawings would be their most hospitable hosts. I was wrong. Instead, colours, lines, shapes and forms took refuge in unexpected places. They hid in Roman and Arabic letters and numbers; in circles, rectangles and squares; in yellow, blue and green. They dissimulated as typefaces, covers, titles and indexes; as the graphi  lines and footnotes of books; they camouflaged as letters, price lists, dissertations and catalogues; as diagrams and budgets. They hibernated not in, but around artworks." Walid Raad in "Miraculous Beginnings", Whitechapel Gallery, London, 2010, p.94.
L'oeuvre BF15 est une étude préparatoire pour l'intervention du collectif à la galerie BF15 de Mexico, dans le quartier de Monterrey. Elle est composée d'une photo, d'un collage, de croquis et de notes. L'intervention fut le prolongement à l'identique d'un des murs de la galerie BF15, prolongeant ainsi le mur au-delà des limites de la propriété, envahissant le trottoir et la rue et pénétrant ainsi l'espace public. Les artistes mettent en scène la perméabilité qui existe entre espace public, professionnel ou privé. À travers ces actions, c'est la définition du mot qui est recherchée, entraînant négociations, contacts et échanges. La question du rôle de chaque espace et sa fonction sont aussi au coeur de leur travail.
Le triptyque Black star press fait partie de la série 'The Black Star Press project' initiée en 2004 par l'artiste américain Kelley Walker. Les images de cette série sont tirées d'un reportage photographique sur la lutte pour les droits civiques en Alabama, réalisé par Charles Moore en 1962 (et publié par le magazine 'Life') qui montrait la répression envers la population noire et les inégalités persistantes dans le sud des Etats-Unis. Le titre "Black star press", emprunté au nom de l'agence de presse pour laquelle Charles Moore travaillait, fait allusion au jeune noir photographié luttant pour les droits de sa communauté, un héros sans nom qui s'est battu pour sa liberté.Sur ces images récupérées, scannées et sérigraphiées, Kelley Walker a répandu du chocolat noir, blanc et au lait à la manière d'un dripping. Ce geste symbolique vient rompre le caractère documentaire de l'image et exprime la subjectivité exacerbée de l'Expressionnisme Abstrait qui s'oppose au geste froid du système de reproduction mécanique de l'image. Réactivant les potentialités ouvertes par les propositions artistiques d'Andy Warhol en faisant ici référence à la série 'Race Riot', "Black star press" fait écho à toute la tradition de l'appropriation des images, du Pop Art à l'Appropriationisme.
Un enfant déguisé en poulet marche dans la rue ; il se rend ou vient d'une fête, et porte un sac de friandises. A l'arrière-plan, un soldat israélien se protège derrière un bloc de béton, contre les attaques palestiniennes. L'ambiguïté de cette image réside dans les sentiments opposés qu'elle véhicule. L'enfant semble inconscient des risques qu'il court dans cette rue, tandis que le soldat est dans une position de surveillance défensive. Le fort contraste chromatique, entre la tonalité générale grise et le costume vif de l'enfant, souligne l'opposition dans les attitudes adoptées par les protagonistes. A l'image de la pratique de Wolberg, on retrouve ici la tension entre une image documentaire et une construction esthétique. L'indifférence de l'enfant questionne violemment la notion de normalité : pour un enfant en Israël, de telles scènes peuvent-elles sembler « normales » ? Cette superposition de deux réalités contradictoires rend l'image perturbante, un peu à l'image de la série « Bringing the War Home », des collages réalisés par Martha Rosler dans les années 1960 : en introduisant la violence dans le quotidien, elle produisait une critique acerbe de la banalisation de la guerre.
Une petite fille colon, déguisée en mariée pour Purim, se tient dans une rue de Hebron, attendant peut-être que ses parents ou d'autres enfants la rejoignent. A l'arrière-plan, trois soldats scrutent les immeubles et les toits pour détecter toute menace. Dos aux soldats, la petite fille n'accorde aucune importance à ce qui l'entoure. Son regard est dirigé hors champ, sa grimace marque une certaine inattention. Les soldats ne semblent pas non plus protéger l'enfant, leurs regards et leurs armes sont braqués dans des directions différentes. Deux des soldats semblent regarder l'objectif, ce qui rappelle l'image à la réalité. On retrouve dans cette photographie, comme dans celle avec le petit garçon déguisé, une tension palpable et la représentation contradictoire de deux réalités, celle de la guerre et celle d'une enfance innocente. De plus, dans les deux photographies, la présence du déguisement peut suggérer une dualité et un travestissement des sentiments. Ces images sont violentes, mais tranchent avec l'archétype du reportage de guerre, quand on pense notamment aux terribles images d'enfants durant la guerre du Vietnam comme celle, emblématique, de Kim Phuc. Pavel Wolberg observe les incongruités de la vie en Israël, où poursuivre une vie « normale » peut créer des situations absurdes.
"Il s'agit de négatifs rayés à cause d'un mari jaloux appartenant à la famille Baqari, qui ne laissait jamais sa femme sortir seule. Il se mit en colère en apprenant qu'elle était venue se faire photographier dans mon studio sans lui dire. Il vint réclamer les négatifs. Je refusais de lui donner, parce qu'ils étaient sur une pellicule 35mm. Finalement, nous avons convenu que je rayerais les négatifs montrant sa femme avec une épingle, ce que je fis devant ses yeux. Des années plus tard, après qu'elle se soit immolée pour se libérer de son calvaire, il revint me voir pour demander des agrandissements de ces photographies, ou de toutes autres photographies qu'elle aurait pu faire sans qu'il ne le sache." Hashem El Madani, Studio Practices 1966.Hashem El Madani, était photographe de studio à Saïda, et il a commencé à travailler en 1948. Comme tous les photographes de studio ses sujets venaient à lui. Le studio était un flux constant de visiteurs. Son studio était comme un havre de paix, où les sujets de ses photographies pourraient agir leurs fantasmes dans le format classique de la photographie de portrait. Madani enregistre les poses, les vêtements et le comportement de ses clients en reflétant le contexte social et politique dans lequel ils vivaient ainsi que les normes et les tabous de la société dans laquelle ils vivaient. Il dépeint des personnages anonymes, des gens qui tombent normalement sous le radar de l'intérêt public. 
"The two men were relatives and both were in the Lebanese Army." Hashem El Madani.
Hashem El Madani, a studio photographer in Saida, began working in 1948. Like all studio photographers his subjects came to him. The studio was a constant flux of visitors. It was perceived as a safe haven, where the subjects of his photographs could act out their fantasies within the conventional format of portrait photography.
Madani records the poses, clothes and behaviour of his clients reflecting the social and political context in which they lived as well as the norms and the taboos. He portrays anonymous personages, people who normally fall below the radar of public interest.
« Les gens demandaient souvent de poser avec la publicité Kodak, une femme grandeur nature avec un appareil photo à la main, proposant des pellicules Kodak. Ils inventaient les poses, les gestes et les situations. » Hashem el Madani.Hashem El Madani, était photographe de studio à Saïda, et qui a commencé à travailler en 1948. Comme tous les photographes de studio ses sujets venaient à lui. Le studio était un flux constant de visiteurs. Son studio était comme un havre de paix, où les sujets de ses photographies pourraient agir leurs fantasmes dans le format classique de la photographie de portrait. Madani enregistre les poses, les vêtements et le comportement de ses clients en reflétant le contexte social et politique dans lequel ils vivaient ainsi que les normes et les tabous de la société dans laquelle ils vivaient. Il dépeint des personnages anonymes, des gens qui tombent normalement sous le radar de l'intérêt public.
« Les gens demandaient souvent de poser avec la publicité Kodak, une femme grandeur nature avec un appareil photo à la main, proposant des pellicules Kodak. Ils inventaient les poses, les gestes et les situations. » Hashem El Madani. Hashem El Madani, était photographe de studio à Saïda, et qui a commencé à travailler en 1948. Comme tous les photographes de studio ses sujets venaient à lui. Le studio était un flux constant de visiteurs. Son studio était comme un havre de paix, où les sujets de ses photographies pourraient agir leurs fantasmes dans le format classique de la photographie de portrait. Madani enregistre les poses, les vêtements et le comportement de ses clients en reflétant le contexte social et politique dans lequel ils vivaient ainsi que les normes et les tabous de la société dans laquelle ils vivaient. Il dépeint des personnages anonymes, des gens qui tombent normalement sous le radar de l'intérêt public. 
« Les gens demandaient souvent de poser avec la publicité Kodak, une femme grandeur nature avec un appareil photo à la main, proposant des pellicules Kodak. Ils inventaient les poses, les gestes et les situations. » Hashem El Madani.Hashem El Madani, était photographe de studio à Saïda, et qui a commencé à travailler en 1948. Comme tous les photographes de studio ses sujets venaient à lui. Le studio était un flux constant de visiteurs. Son studio était comme un havre de paix, où les sujets de ses photographies pourraient agir leurs fantasmes dans le format classique de la photographie de portrait. Madani enregistre les poses, les vêtements et le comportement de ses clients en reflétant le contexte social et politique dans lequel ils vivaient ainsi que les normes et les tabous de la société dans laquelle ils vivaient. Il dépeint des personnages anonymes, des gens qui tombent normalement sous le radar de l'intérêt public. 
« Dans les années 1980, j'ai commencé à utiliser des fonds en papier coloré, dont le jaune. On peut voir qu'ils n'atteignaient jamais le sol. Je les utilisais pour des photographies en couleur et en noir et blanc.» Hashem El Madani.Hashem El Madani, était photographe de studio à Saïda, et qui a commencé à travailler en 1948. Comme tous les photographes de studio ses sujets venaient à lui. Le studio était un flux constant de visiteurs. Son studio était comme un havre de paix, où les sujets de ses photographies pourraient agir leurs fantasmes dans le format classique de la photographie de portrait. Madani enregistre les poses, les vêtements et le comportement de ses clients en reflétant le contexte social et politique dans lequel ils vivaient ainsi que les normes et les tabous de la société dans laquelle ils vivaient. Il dépeint des personnages anonymes, des gens qui tombent normalement sous le radar de l'intérêt public.
« D'autres photographes m'envoyaient parfois des négatifs de personnes avec des strabismes, me demandant de les retoucher. Je grattais la solution à l'emplacement de la pupille, pour en dessiner une autre juste à côté.» Hashem El Madani.Hashem El Madani, était photographe de studio à Saïda, et qui a commencé à travailler en 1948. Comme tous les photographes de studio ses sujets venaient à lui. Le studio était un flux constant de visiteurs. Son studio était comme un havre de paix, où les sujets de ses photographies pourraient agir leurs fantasmes dans le format classique de la photographie de portrait. Madani enregistre les poses, les vêtements et le comportement de ses clients en reflétant le contexte social et politique dans lequel ils vivaient ainsi que les normes et les tabous de la société dans laquelle ils vivaient. Il dépeint des personnages anonymes, des gens qui tombent normalement sous le radar de l'intérêt public.
« Pendant la prise de vue c'était un challenge de s'assurer que les garçons s'assoient correctement sans bouger. Parfois, un membre de la famille se cachait derrière pour tenir l'enfant. » Hashem El Madani.Hashem El Madani, était photographe de studio à Saïda, et qui a commencé à travailler en 1948. Comme tous les photographes de studio ses sujets venaient à lui. Le studio était un flux constant de visiteurs. Son studio était comme un havre de paix, où les sujets de ses photographies pourraient agir leurs fantasmes dans le format classique de la photographie de portrait. Madani enregistre les poses, les vêtements et le comportement de ses clients en reflétant le contexte social et politique dans lequel ils vivaient ainsi que les normes et les tabous de la société dans laquelle ils vivaient. Il dépeint des personnages anonymes, des gens qui tombent normalement sous le radar de l'intérêt public. 
Hashem El Madani, était photographe de studio à Saïda, et qui a commencé à travailler en 1948. Comme tous les photographes de studio ses sujets venaient à lui. Le studio était un flux constant de visiteurs. Son studio était comme un havre de paix, où les sujets de ses photographies pourraient agir leurs fantasmes dans le format classique de la photographie de portrait. Madani enregistre les poses, les vêtements et le comportement de ses clients en reflétant le contexte social et politique dans lequel ils vivaient ainsi que les normes et les tabous de la société dans laquelle ils vivaient. Il dépeint des personnages anonymes, des gens qui tombent normalement sous le radar de l'intérêt public 
"Films inspired people a lot. they came to perform kissing in front of a camera. In a conservative society such as Saida, people were willing to play the kiss between two people of the same sex, but very rarely between a man and a woman.I remember only one couple who came to the studio and kissed in front of the camera, and they were not married. The rest of them were people of the same sex. One of them plays the woman, while the other plays the man." Hashem El Madani.
Hashem El Madani, a studio photographer in Saida, began working in 1948. Like all studio photographers his subjects came to him. The studio was a constant flux of visitors. It was perceived as a safe haven, where the subjects of his photographs could act out their fantasies within the conventional format of portrait photography.
Madani records the poses, clothes and behaviour of his clients reflecting the social and political context in which they lived as well as the norms and the taboos. He portrays anonymous personages, people who normally fall below the radar of public interest.
« Quand vous posez la main sur l'épaule de quelqu'un, votre épaule devient droite et horizontale. Poser sa main sur une surface stable permet de placer l'épaule et la posture générale du corps. » Hashem El Madani.Hashem El Madani, était photographe de studio à Saïda, et qui a commencé à travailler en 1948. Comme tous les photographes de studio ses sujets venaient à lui. Le studio était un flux constant de visiteurs. Son studio était comme un havre de paix, où les sujets de ses photographies pourraient agir leurs fantasmes dans le format classique de la photographie de portrait. Madani enregistre les poses, les vêtements et le comportement de ses clients en reflétant le contexte social et politique dans lequel ils vivaient ainsi que les normes et les tabous de la société dans laquelle ils vivaient. Il dépeint des personnages anonymes, des gens qui tombent normalement sous le radar de l'intérêt public. 
Cette photographie semble en attente de signification, elle évoque des éléments plus ou moins connus sans pour autant s'y confondre totalement : échangeur autoroutier, pont, pylone électrique... C'est en fait la fin du rail de l'Aérotrain, véhicule sur coussin d'air inventé par Jean Bertin dans les années 70, qui fonctionne comme « un fossile du mouvement à l'échelle du paysage », selon le mot de l'artiste. Ce lieu fragmentaire est un espace de mise en mouvement physique. Il met aussi en mouvement l'imaginaire du spectateur. La Série « Les formes du repos », est une collection photographique d'objets géométriques en béton, isolés dans des lieux vagues, à l'écart ou en attente. Le document photographique permet de rendre compte de ces « sculptures involontaires ». Les formes géométriques épurées (modernistes ou futuristes) entrent en tension avec le décor (un champ, quelques bâtiments à l'horizon). Cette photographie est charnière dans la série, car le rail n'est plus un objet mais un espace. Le point de prise de vue met en valeur son caractère fragmentaire, le rail ne mène qu'au vide du décor. Au constat d'une fonctionnalité perdue, l'artiste accompagné de Vincent Lamouroux a conçu dans le projet « Pentacycle » (véhicule mono terrain, 2002) réactivant le déplacement sur cette ruine.
Mario Garcia Torres imagines cinematic devices to replay stories occasionally forgotten by Conceptual art. For him, this is a way of rethinking the tradition in a more personal way, to have a grip on events of recent history and examine them with a curiosity, both critical and sensual. The artist emphasizes the fact that new ideas and meanings may arise from these archaeological narratives. Until it Makes Sense seems to say that faced with the confrontation of heterogeneous elements, coherence can only emerge with the passage of time. It suggests yet that sensitive and personal observation, after all, is a valid form of interpretation of history.Mario Garcia Torres makes his work from already written stories, whether real or fictitious. He creates new narratives based on documents and works of "mythical" artists such as Robert Barry, John Baldessari, or lesser known artists such as Allen Smithee or Oscar Neuestern.
Mario Garcia Torres films a game of Charades among professional actors guessing the former North Korean dictator's favorite Hollywood films. Indeed rather surprisingly Kim seems to have had a huge collection of Western videos and he published a book called "On the art of the Cinema" in 1973. As the final acknowledgments indicate, Garcia Torres's work was produced following in depth research, consulting information given by director Shin Sang-ok who has been kidnapped by Kim in 1978, as well as Jerrold Post (The George Washington University) and Timothy Savage (Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development).The motion pictures represented are, in order of appearance: Doctor Zhivago by Craig Wadlin; First Blood by Misti Traya; From Russia with Love by Vanessa Koellner; You Only Live Twice by Nate Harrison; The Godfather by Roberto Medina; Friday the 13th by Gregory Arlt; and Gone With The Wind by Margarita Reyes. Cinematographer: Kevin Merz.The old-fashioned grainy black and white film stock bring a certain distance or an artistic remove from these otherwise known actors in TV series or cinema. The approach is typically modest in presentation in the mode of performance art of the 1970s. The actors' gestures hilariously attempt to represent a film at great speed. The success rate seems high as they evoke the popular culture they are charged to communicate. Strangely effectively they also capture general hints of violence and melodrama in the dictator's taste.
Untitled consists of a small wooden sculpture that leans against a wall. Here, a rectangular piece of wood holds a folded article from a vintage design magazine whose Italian text states: “Villa per una persona sola. Arquitectura Pasadena California.” On the flipside of the paper is a feature with different images of paintings and architecture, including a painting by Piet Mondrian. Sierra extracts and appropriates from this idea and evidence of modernism as a foreign paradigm exported through the printed media and reconstitutes a new form.
  In 8 Ball Surfboard (1995),Alexis Smith combines her long-term interests in California culture and conceptual assemblage. The surfboard, an emblem of Southern California, emblazoned with the image of an eight-ball, references numerous tropes and clichés of American popular culture, specifically subcultures related to pool halls, surfing, and beaches. Indeed, this model-scale surfboard may be a future pop-culture relic, referencing a particular surfer or era of board design. 

 
Untitled (City Limits) is a series of five black-and-white photographs of road signs, specifically the signs demarcating city limits of several small towns in California. Taken outside Palmdale, Littlerock, Pearlblossom, Victorville, and Barstow, towns where the population does not exceed 20,000, Ruppersberg’s trip follows the outskirts of Los Angeles. As with many of his other photographic series, the artist here inserted into each view a constant element that disturbs the otherwise quiet scenes: a hand holding an open magazine. By pairing each road sign with magazines as diverse as Playboy, Look, Hulk comics, Arizona Highways or Rona Barrett’s Hollywood, Ruppersberg teases the viewer to find a connection between the two. 
Although best known as a provocateur and portraitist, Opie also photographs landscapes, cityscapes, and architecture. The Freeway Series was developed in 1995, right after the artist’s inclusion in that year’s Whitney Biennial. As if suggesting that her work should not be restricted to being seen through overtly political or activist lenses, this series lends insight into the city of Los Angeles via its most characteristic urban feature: its highways. By documenting the monumental concrete structures devoid of humans or vehicles, one is suddenly conscious of their real scale, an element only emphasized by the small format of the printed photographs. The otherwise unnoticed massive structures are thus made strange. Like Allen Ruppersberg’s Untitled (City Limits), which also are taken along the freeway, Opie’s photographs have particular resonance within the Kadist’s “101 Collection.” 
Victory at Sea is a simple mechanism made from cardboard and found materials that mimics the Phenakistoscope, an early cinematic apparatus. The piece requires the viewer to turn a wheel and look through a small hole in order to see a briefly animated succession of small drawings of sailors. 
Martinez’s sculpture A meditation on the possibility... of romantic love or where you goin’ with that gun in your hand, Bobby Seale and Huey Newton discuss the relationship between expressionism and social reality in Hitler’s painting depicts the legendary Black Panther leaders Huey P. Newton and Bobby Seale. By using Carrara marble, a material usually associated with heroic public sculptures, Martinez casts the history of African-American revolutionaries into the artistic tradition of monumentality. Like the artist’s earlier work included in the 1993 Whitney Biennial, an interactive piece made up with pins that read, “I CAN’T IMAGINE EVER WANTING TO BE WHITE,” A meditation on the possibility… continues Martinez’s effort to expose cultural contradictions and increase public awareness.
In 1970, Ruscha began a series of paintings made from stains. He experimented with a variety of materials (gun powder, dust, blood, among many others) to leave surface traces of different objects. The resulting images are negative shapes amidst blurry environments like Splinters and Seconal in which a grey surface is imprinted with the materials mentioned in the title. The reference to the sedative Seconal, moves the drawing’s obscure form from the abstract to the hallucinatory.
Last Postcards is a series of three small double-sided paintings on plywood in which Biernoff imagines the last communications from explorers lost in the wilderness. Biernoff’s choice of Everett Ruess, Percy Fawcett, and the conceptual artist Bas Jan Ader is particularly telling. On one level, the Last Postcards analogize the nineteenth-century explorer with the contemporary artist who looks for purpose in their work. This series continues Biernoff’s interest in the construction of myths and, to a certain extent, of utopias, ideas which have deep resonance in the cultural imagery of the West Coast. The careful, painted reproduction of a mass-produced object like a postcard reinforces this fictive aspect.
Wallace says of his Heroes in the Street series, “The street is the site, metaphorically as well as in actuality, of all the forces of society and economics imploded upon the individual, who, moving within the dense forest of symbols of the modern city, can achieve the status of the heroic.” The hero in Study for my Heroes in the Street (Stan) is the photoconceptual artist Stan Douglas, who is depicted here (and also included in the Kadist Collection) as an archetypal figure restlessly drifting the streets of the modern world. Patches of canvas cover parts of this otherwise representational photograph and ask the viewer to consider the role that editing and play in our perception of the urban landscape and modernity. 
#17 Pink is a photogram, a photographic image produced without the use of a camera. Here, the artist placed plumbago blossoms on a sheet of eight-by-ten-inch film and exposed it to light. The negative was then projected onto Kodak Metallic Endura paper through a color mural enlarger and cooler filters to produce the multicolored print. Similar techniques were used to produce Stowe (2006), an ambiguous work that refers to the American writer Harriet Beecher Stowe. Folded and curled, the fabric reveals an obdurate materiality through the density and thickness of the color and the texture. Welling’s unique processes continuously challenge the criteria and reception of abstract photography.
Welling employs simple materials like crumpled aluminum foil, wrinkled fabric and pastry dough and directly exposes them as photograms, playing with the image in the process of revealing it. Although Welling’s approach to photography is more conceptually oriented than poetic, the resulting image in Stowe (a direct photogram of a crumpled piece of cloth) somehow resembles a curtain, perhaps suggesting that an artificial even fictive component in photographic representation. While the curtain might echo other imagery, Welling’s approach is not allegorical but rather abstract in a way that reinforces the materiality of the object.
The Striation Scrap Lamps (vertical and horizontal) although functioning as utilitarian objects also represent Jason Meadows’s interest in a certain kind of crafted sculpture. In fact, one could go as far as to say that these pieces connect with different lines running through the 101 collection: they combine both the appropriation of found materials that responds to a very common practice in certain forms of West Coast avant-garde with an interest in the intersection of art and design (something that is present to a certain extent in more slick, design-oriented pieces such as Chadwick Rantanen’s Telescopic Poles for example).
Iron Sorrows (1990) brings together what are for Alexis Smith common motifs and materials such as scavenged and repurposed metal, and street signage. Iron is one of nature’s most abundant metals. Smith, a philosopher of human detritus and poetic associations, presents it in this work as simultaneously everywhere yet paradoxically forgotten, lost in the heaps of refuse that fill junkyards and vacant lots. She thereby recalls and reclaims something important and elemental—indeed, a material that is integral to the physical fabric of culture and society, one that we associate with incorruptibility and malleability simultaneously. 

The first iteration of Flutter was specifically conceived for the Pro Arts Gallery space in Oakland in 2010, and the version acquired by the Kadist Collection is an adaptation of it. The work consists of a mirrored structure with a hidden motor that vibrates every so often. In this play of mirrors, the viewer first encounters his reflection, but in time the vibration distorts the image, making self-recognition impossible and suggesting the fragility of identity. Flutter’s reflective surfaces also evoke the architecture of office buildings that shake just so in an earthquake.  
The version of Frontier acquired by the Kadist Collection consists of a single-channel video, adapted from the monumental installation and performance that Aitken presented in Rome, by the Tiber River, in 2009. In this film, Aiken’s allusion to “the frontier” and iconic imagery like the cowboy suggest that the American West Coast as a cultural construction. These notions are reinforced by two key elements in the film: its protagonist, the iconic West Coast artist Ed Ruscha, and its reference to the cinematic and the experience of the movie theater. The film is structured as a journey in time, from day to night. The completed film was shot in different places around the globe, including Los Angeles, Rome, South Africa, and Israel, which suggests the blurring boundaries of the unknown and emphasizes both fictive and real landscapes.
Untitled (Wheelchair Drawing) is a ten-foot photo transfer of the image of a wheelchair with burning embers in its seat. In 2006, it was included in the exhibition, Alchemy of Comedy…Stupid at Artpace in San Antonio where Arceneaux explored the links between the medieval practice of alchemy and contemporary comedy. However, his particular image of the wheelchair is tragic, since it refers specifically to the comedian Richard Pryor, who became temporarily wheelchair-bound after being severely burned from drug use, and died prematurely of a heart attack in 2005.
Arms & Legs (Specif. Elbows & Knees), etc.: Arm (with Bottle) belongs to Baldessari’s most recent series of paintings in which the artist brings together photographic, painted, and three-dimensional elements, to juxtapose unlikely body fragments such as noses and ears, elbows and knees, or eyebrows and foreheads. Humorously playing with the legacy of Surrealism, these uncanny binary arrangements set up the rest of the body as an interstitial space and affirm the subjective nature of representation.
In One Must, an image of a pair of scissors, accompanied by the words of work’s title, poses an ominous question about the relationship between the image and the text. The otherwise banal scissors become suggestively violent in relation to the text, which was originally the title of a print in Francisco de Goya’s Disasters of War series. However, Baldessari is less interested in the logical relationships between text and image than he is with the conceptual leaps that the viewer makes with the limited information provided.
The voids in Baldessari’s painted photographs are simultaneously positive and negative spaces, both additive and subtractive. In Person with Pillow: Desire, Lust, Fate, a woman’s facial expression is obscured by such void, leaving only her posture to suggest her emotional state. The two images stacked above the woman can be read as comic-style thought bubbles, intimating that she has lust, desire, and fate on her mind. 
Untitled (Construction) recalls the series of glass cubes that gained Bell international recognition in the 1960s. Resembling a black-mirrored box, this recent iridescent piece produces an uncanny effect in which the interior planes seem to enclose a mysterious light. Although austere in form, Bell’s works are far from simple: he uses technology like a vacuum-coating process, to accurately control the different levels of opacity and transparency on the surface of his immaculate glass works. 
Like many of Larry Bell’s works, VFGY9 deals primarily with the viewer’s experience of sight. The blocks resemble a stone carving, or slabs of wood shaped into a simple organic composition whose overall sheen is varied through a thin layer of aluminum vapor. Yet, the real material of Bell’s piece is actually light, formed within the viewer’s eye into masses as present as stone.
In Eric Goes to Jail, a coffee maker, red lipstick, a pile of cash, some exotic parakeets, a brassiere, a bow tie, and a stained napkin scribbled with a phone number constitute clues to unraveling a mystery and invite the viewer to speculate about the events of the preceding night. 
In Are You Lonely Mr. Claus?, a bottle of whiskey, a red rose, a lit cigarette, and an assembly of kitschy Christmas memorabilia (Santa’s hat, a sugar cane) are displayed side-by-side with artifacts that denote some sort of (typically Californian?) summer leisure time (sea shells, sun block and goggles). 
While Untitled (Shuffle) presents the same formal characteristics as the rest of Berman’s verifax collages, this constellation of specific images inside the radio’s frames—the Star of David, Hebrew characters, biblical animals—have Jewish symbolism and attest to the artist’s lasting obsession with the kabala. The piece’s sub-title, “Shuffle,” suggests the presence of chance and randomness in any given organization of elements.
Black Curl (CMY/Five Magnet: Irvine, California, March 25, 2010, Fujicolor Cyrstal Archive Super Type C, EM No 165-021, 05910) is a visually compelling photogram. Bold shapes, and the breaks between them, create a rhythm and compose an engaging abstract image. At the same time, the work deals with the conditions of the photograph’s manufacture. The literal production of a photograph—the process of photo developing and printing—is the work’s subject, and Beshty slyly points to the ways in which these material processes possess their own aesthetic appeal and content.
Collectors’ Favorites is an episode of local cable program from the mid-1990s in which ordinary people were invited to present their personal collections—a concept that in many ways anticipates current reality TV shows and internet videos. When it comes her turn to “perform,” Bornstein displays mundane and disposable—but elaborately archived or framed—consumer objects such as coffee lids, plastic straws, candy wrappers, and product labels. Through the medium of public broadcasting, then, she makes visual the frequently overlooked but massive cultural penetration of advertising, and its proliferation of “throwaway culture” via images. Further, Bornstein suggests that within a massive and mercurial social network that often places value arbitrarily, any worthless mass-market products can be turned into coveted objects via absurd relations and vice versa.
The small drawings that comprise Study from May Day March, Los Angeles 2010 (Immigration Reform Now) and We Are Immigrants Not Terrorists are based on photographs taken at a political rally in downtown Los Angeles in which thousands of individuals demonstrated for immigrants’ rights. The protesters and their supporters carried signs and wore t-shirts whose messages are highlighted in the drawings. However, in them, Bowers isolates the images of the protesters from the multitude that surrounds them in the original photographs, and, therefore amplifies their messages. Included in Bowers’s 2010 exhibition, The Political Landscape, these small drawings were part of the project that explored the current problems surrounding the Mexican-American border and the thousands of deaths that result from trying to cross it. 
In Captain X, Star Trek’s Captain Kirk, played by William Shatner, is limply draped over a large boulder in what looks like a hostile alien environment. However, Kirk’s passive pose doesn’t so much suggest the aftermath of a battle as it does heavy contemplation, depression, or utter despair. Captain X is part of a series of paintings depicting various Star Trek characters who are stricken with human emotion-—a tactic that diminishes the mythological grandeur associated with this heroic captain and his indefatigable crew. Captain X, like much of Butler’s work, investigates the role of the male authority figure and exposes him at his most vulnerable moments.
For Untitled, Caesar encased recycled objects such as scraps of plywood, paper or cloth in resin and then cut and reassembled the pieces into abstract forms. This technical rework allows for a clinical inspection of the material contents of the piece and the resulting slanted industrial monolith echoes minimalist sculpture, although with a different expressive texture. Indeed, Untitled can be seen as a contemporary pyramid with a painterly surface. Its transparency reveals that the base and the top have been created out of a single cast piece cleanly bisected into two fragments which were subsequently placed—as if in a mirror—so that both sides of the split are visible. 
 After being cast, the resulting resin block used in JCA-25-SC was cut into thin slices obtaining a series of rectangular shapes that resemble ceramic tiles. Usually displayed in grid against the wall or in a corner, the viewer is able to follow the sequence of cross sections to visually recreate the work’s genesis. In this way, Caesar’s pieces embody an interesting x-ray or archaeology of the artistic process itself. 
The Breaks reflects Capistran’s interests in sampling and fusing different cultural, social, and historical sources. Growing up in an African-American community in Los Angeles, Capistran has long been influenced by hip-hop culture. The photographs in this print document him surreptitiously breakdancing on Carl Andre’s iconic lead floor piece after the guards at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art have left the gallery. Each of the twenty-five frames depicts a classic breakdance move. Wearing a working-class outfit, Capistran intentionally emphasizes the vernacular aspect of this art form and his personal engagement challenges the hierarchy between street culture and high art. 
White Minority, is typical of Capistran’s sampling of high art genres and living subcultures in which the artist subsumes an object’s high art pedigree within a vernacular art form. Here, Capistran humorously remixes the form and style of Frank Stella’s Black Paintings with California punk rock band Black Flag’s song title and logo (created by artist Raymond Pettibon). White Minority, then, appropriates, recontextualizes, and riffs on language and visual signs to unmoor notions of identity, power, and revolution.
Carland’s series of large format photographs, Lesbian Beds, depicts bed sheets recently vacated. Shot from directly above, the images offer lavish views of private spaces. Seizing onto viewers’ voyeuristic impulses, Carland invites them to look, but denies them the opportunity to study the figures to whom the sheets belong, turning rumpled covers into anthropomorphic stand-ins. By withholding a direct view of the subjects themselves, Carland creates portraits that enable empathic projection but elude fixity. 
Domes #1 represents a significant moment in Chicago’s career when her art began to change from a New York-influenced Abstract Expressionist style to one that reflected the pop-inflected art being made in Los Angeles. By 1968, the year she began creating Domes, the twenty-nine-year-old artist had moved from Chicago to Los Angeles, graduated from UCLA, and was part of a generation of artists whose work was characterized by of the masculine overtones of Southern California’s flourishing car culture. Inspired by new technologies in the auto manufacturing, these “Finish Fetish” artists appropriated industrial materials such as car paint or lacquer to create artwork with pristine finishes. Chicago too was interested in using industrial technologies and enrolled in auto body and boat building school. While the geometric forms, meticulously applied finish, and luminous, gradated hues of color in Domes speak to Chicago’s interest in the prevailing artistic themes of 1960s Southern California, its intimate scale, round shape, and triangular formation belie her career-long interest in using “feminine” forms to promote feminist issues. 
Unlike many of his earlier films which often present poignant critiques of mass media and its deleterious effects on American culture, EASTER MORNING, Conner’s final video work before his death in 2008, constitutes a far more meditative filmic essay in which a limited amount of images turn into compelling, almost hypnotic visual experience. The video presents us with a reinterpretation of footage from his unreleased avant-garde film, Easter Morning Raga, from 1966. In contrast to his more famous pieces like A Movie (1958) and Crossroads (1976) which are juxtapositions of fragments from newsreels, soft-core pornography, and B movies, the images in EASTER MORNING serve as a reinterpretation of footage. Here the artist expands the images in duration, gauge, and frame rate, which results in an enigmatic visual transcendence, or “imagelessness,” and distances the viewers from their preconceptions of what they are watching. Accompanied by rhythmical music, the collision of images in EASTER MORNING is not only testament to Conner’s ability to balance order and chaos, control and chance, but further reveals his abiding interest in alternative ways of seeing and experiencing. 
In 1977, as an already-established artist best known for his films, Bruce Conner began to photograph punk rock shows at Mabuhay Gardens, a San Francisco club and music venue. 27 Punk Photos: 11. Dim Wanker: F Word, May, 1978 (1978) is representative of a series of photographs by Conner, whose subject became a fascination for the artist. The photographs depict the revival of British punk rock groups in the late 1970s, and the importance of this movement in San Francisco. Some of Conner’s photographs from this period were published in the punk magazine Search and Destroy and depicted such significant figures from the scene as Frankie Fix of Crime, the Mutants, Penelope Houston of the Avengers, and Will Shatter of Negative Trend.
Bruce Conner is best known for his experimental films, but throughout his career he also worked with pen, ink, and paper to create drawings ranging from psychedelic patterns to repetitious inkblot compositions. Untitled Inkblot Drawing (CT-1491) (1995) is representative of his aspect of his practice. It is a formal exploration related to many different things: the Rorschach inkblot testing used by psychologists, Japanese calligraphy, Egyptian hieroglyphs, and the intricate patterning Conner saw everywhere in the world around him.
Many of Araujo’s works depict reproductions and Libro Ponti II is a recreation of a book on Italian architect Gio Ponti. Ponti designed the Villa Planchart a private, modernist house in Caracas, Venezuela, which at the time it was built in 1956, reflected the emergence of a class increasingly globalized, both culturally and economically. Araujo’s replica of the book thus refers to the role and visibility of Venezuela in circuits of global cultural production.
Sign #1, Sign #2, Sign #3 were included in Found Object Assembly, Copeland’s 2009 solo show at Jack Hanley Gallery, San Francisco. These rather austere collages were created by simply cutting and inverting the text from existing information signs. In Sign #2, for example, the original image that presumably carried the message “NO RIDERS” was placed upside down. By cutting out some of the syllables and inverting and rearranging them, the message was rendered unreadable. By maintaining the overall integrity of the signs and their most legible visual characteristics (luminescent color, bold font, size and rectangular format), Copeland’s collages obscure language in favor of a “delirious optical disorientation.” 
The two drawings in the Kadist Collection are part of a larger series entitled Las Mariposas Eternas (The Eternal Butterflies). They are studies for two large sculptures that explore the role of monuments and emblems in the configuration of Latin American national identities. The first drawing reproduces an equestrian statue of Juan Lavalle, one of Argentina’s independence heroes. The second drawing shows a Japanese anime character riding a monster, suggesting how an equestrian monument in a globalized future would look like.
Dorsky’s pieces included in the Kadist Collection are small still photographs from twelve of his most important films. Here, the still images function in the same way as his cinematographic work: Highly aesthetic, they allow for the appearance of intricate visual patterns and layers of meaning that take scenes of everyday life as its source material. Both Dorsky’s cinematic and photographic works follow a stream of consciousness that rejects representation or fixed narrative structure. Intended as transparent, direct objects to be experienced, these intimate and quiet works encourage contemplation. 
Michigan Central Station is part of a larger photographic series, Detroit Photos, which includes images of houses, theaters, stadiums, offices, and other municipal structures. Continuing his fascination with failed modernist utopias, Douglas depicts Michigan Central Station as a monolithic, almost prison-like structure lording over a desolate landscape. Once the hub of industrial transportation, the station is now devoid of any human activity and lies fallow, surrounded by train-less tracks and vegetation-less ground. Douglas’s preoccupation with obsolete sites like this seems less concerned with revisiting or memorializing them than in reviewing the conditions of their failure. 
Dice is a work from the series Midcentury Studio, in which Douglas emulates press photography from the 1940s that depict a world of urban pleasure and crime. Here, the imagined photographer captures a group of men gambling in a scene that appears to be illuminated by the photographer’s flash, an illusion that challenges the notion of the camera as the all-seeing and revealing.
Ongoing Time Stabbed with a Dagger was Farmer’s first kinetic sculpture that added a cinematic character to an “ever-reconfiguring play presented in real time.” The assembly of various objects and props on top of a large platform constitutes not only a work, but, to a certain extent, a show in itself. The title of the piece comes from the literal translation of René Magritte’s painting from 1938, La Durée Poignardée, whose more familiar translation is “Time Transfixed.”
Meireles, whose work often involves sound, refers to Sal Sem Carne (Salt Without Meat) as a “sound sculpture.” The printed images and sounds recorded on this vinyl record and it’s lithographed sleeve describe the massacre of the Krahó people of Brazil. The piece draws on Meireles’s first-hand contact with many indigenous groups through his father’s work with the Indian Protection Service. The recordings on the LP contain narrative accounts of massacres of native peoples, as well as indigenous music and rituals.
Open Mind is a model created by Capote for a traversable public maze that, when seen from above, resembles the human brain. Because individual movement through the maze echoes the movement of neurons and a larger aggregated whole, visitors can be seen to enact a model of sociality and public space that both embodies and metaphorizes social consciousness. Capote’s model shows not just the proposed structure, but features figurines as well, to illustrate the possible scale and interactivity of the final piece. 
The American War, which takes its title from the Vietnamese term for what Americans call the Vietnam War, has toured the United States extensively with the goal of presenting a Vietnamese perspective of that history. The project began in 2005 when Fletcher visited the War Remnants Museum in Ho Chi Minh City. He was shocked by images that depicted the lasting effects of the war and the atrocities committed by the United States. Fletcher felt it important that these images be seen and discussed within an American context and, using a handheld digital camera, he photographed all of the museum’s images and labels. At that moment, Fletcher’s project resonated directly with the American intervention in Iraq and Afghanistan. The artist took extreme care in shooting the pictures from an angle that would diminish the flash reflection on the surfaces, and paid attention to capture the wall colors and the explanatory labels. In this sense, Fletcher’s re-creation of the Vietnamese installation not only shares important information but also recontextualizes it in a way that comments on the subjective and constructed nature of representation, both artistic and historic.
Like many of Dr. Lakra’s works, Cortes y la malinche is a drawing done on a found vintage magazine page. The text at the bottom of the page, “reclinandose inocentemente sobre el regazo de Hernan-Cortés,” translates to, “reclining innocently in the lap of Hernan Cortés,” and refers to the Spanish conquistador who brought down the Aztec empire. Malinche was a native Mexican who served both as Cortés’s translator in both the Mayan and Aztec languages, as well as his lover. Malinche, whose name now suggests disloyalty, appears here adorned in tattoos added by Dr. Lakra.
Golia’s Untitled 3 is an installation in which a mechanical device is programmed to shoot clay pigeons that are thrown up in front of a white wall. More than a simple reference to the sport, the work has the disconcerting effect of creating a danger zone in the gallery space. The reference to direct aggression or violence is reinforced by the piece’s rapid pace. But on another level, Untitled 3’s steady rhythm seems to constitute an alternate way of measuring time, an idea explored in other works in the Kadist Collection, like Mungo Thomson’s Untitled (TIME), Geoffrey Farmer’s Ongoing Time Stabbed with a Dagger, and William E. Jones’s Killed, in which the rapid succession of images also points towards the passing of time in the historical sense. 
Modotti’s Diego Rivera Mural: Billionaires Club; Ministry of Education, Mexico D.F., Third Gallery is a photograph of a section of a mural by Diego Rivera in the Ministry of Education in Mexico City. Rivera painted over a hundred frescoes throughout the courtyard of the building, an early mural series that helped revive and popularize the art of mural painting. Modotti, a friend of Rivera’s, took hundreds of photographs of the frescoes which depict divisions of labor in Mexican society. This particular photograph focuses on Rivera’s rendering of a dinner of the elite, feasting and reading a stock ticker.
Dance!!!!! continues Graham’s long-standing fascination with the myth of the American West, an idea he investigates through its prevalence in movies, music, and legends. Here, the artist recreates the familiar, hackneyed saloon scene from Hollywood Westerns in which a man—played by Graham himself—is forced to “dance” because bullets are being shot at his feet. Considered a “staged photograph,” Dance!!! reenacts and isolates a culturally repetitive “event.” In doing so, Graham is able to falsify personal experience thus questioning the “true” origin of every Western scene held in our collective cultural memory. 
Ponderosa Pine IV belongs to a series of large-scale photographs of trees taken by Graham and depicts a particular species that live in Northern California. The photograph is framed upside down; these “inverted trees” follow Graham’s early experiments with the camera lucida, a room-sized pinhole camera that dates back to ancient times and which he has used to photograph trees from various regions. Through these works Graham looks back at the history of photography while making the viewers aware of their own retinal experience. In the case of the Ponderosa Pine series, the artist’s use of a pinewood frame gives the elephantine inverted tree both a physical presence and a rather morbid veil.
Good Hand Bad Hand was created especially for the 2010 show Rodney Graham: Painter, Poet, Lighthouse Keeper at the Lisson Gallery in London. In this pair of light boxes, Graham appears as one of his many alter egos—a gambler sitting at a poker table, cards in hand. The two images are almost identical except for slight differences in gesture: in the left panel Graham is arranging his hand of cards while in the right his hand is placed on the table. This change in gesture redirects the image’s focal point to the cards; in gambling such a subtle and involuntary shift in body language is known as a “tell,” and could give the game away.
This piece belongs to the series Lo viejo y lo nuevo / Das Alte und das Neue (The Old and the New) which was first exhibited in 2010 at Barbara Gross Gallery in Germany. Here, Garaicoa’s interest in vernacular Cuban architecture shifts towards the European context: a series of twelve nineteenth-century French engravings have been reworked into delicate paper models. Here, the two-dimensional old-school architectural renderings have become the foundation for new hollow three-dimensional structures. Reminiscent of pop-up storybooks, the small-scale paper forms have also been augmented with black paper shapes, which both resemble the images in a shadow theater and recall abstract modernist forms.
This particular drawing, like many of Grotjahn’s works, presents a decentered single-point perspective. Unlike the traditional vanishing point, the rays here emanate from the surface’s middle and hover around an indefinite and impossible convergence. The resulting fluttering of the image’s sections animates the drawing in relationship to its named subject, the butterfly. The work also suggests the shimmer and movement of the insect’s wings around an inconsequential and difficult-to-see body.
In line with Hernández’s interest in catastrophe, Vulnerabilia (choques) is a collection of images of shipwrecks and Vulnerabilia (naufragios) collects scenes of car crashes. The artist has said that the appropriation of popular imagery is a way for him to take pictures without a camera and to register the things that happen in the everyday as visual essays that evidence the fragility of the world. 
Gutmann’s photographs Untitled Nob Hill and From the North Tower of the Golden Gate Bridge are some of the oldest pieces in the Kadist Collection and serve as historical anchors for many of the more recent works. Distinctly modernist in style, the photos depict two of San Francisco’s most recognizable sites—the affluent neighborhood of Nob Hill and the iconic Golden Gate Bridge—through extremely estranged angles and balanced compositions. Moreover, these two images are representative of Gutmann’s work inasmuch as they epitomize two of the photographer’s visual obsessions: the automobile and the city of San Francisco. 
Haendel’s series, Knights, is a set of impeccably drafted, nine-foot-tall, pencil drawings of full suits of armor. The series riffs on previous investigations, including Haendel’s meticulous depictions of masculine political figures such as a headless J. Edgar Hoover, and conversely, a Hitler head floating vulnerably in the center of a white expanse (with iconic mustache crafted from the artist’s pubic hair). Rendered in soft graphite, the imposing Knights embody the conflicting ideals of chivalrous deference and invulnerable masculinity. 
Working independently, Herndon experimented at the forefront of a now-canonical method—appropriation—by painting additions into found images from magazines such as Life and Sports Illustrated in a way that imbues the resulting works with mythical significance. Associated with the Beat movement, her work is integral to that part of the history of San Francisco. White Angel (1962), painted in the year of Marilyn Monroe’s death, portrays the actress in a process of devolution. Pictured upright in Vogue at the top-right of the frame, she sinks in stages to its lower left, increasingly engulfed by encroaching layers of paint and paper. Beneath fiery, scribbled, gestural marks and surrounded by foreboding, masked figures, her famous, partially obscured smile looks like a grimace.
Abraham Cruzvillegas is known for elegant constructions of found materials. He creates sculptures out of, in his words, "wool, sheep shit, chicken wire, discarded furniture, cardboard, stones, grass and my own hair". These materials, as well as the content and presentation of Cruzvillegas' work, reflect the practices growing out of a marginalized world, pushed aside by private property and capital, such as protest songs and self-built homes. This aspect of his work ties in as well as the public performance and collaboration that undergird some of Cruzvillegas' projects.
The two pieces in the Kadist Collection depict foggy landscapes, one at dawn, the other at nighttime. Both dimly lit scenes are dominated by an eerie feeling. Taken by a road, these painterly photographs suggest the uncanny character of the transient.
Every work in Hoeber’s 2011 series Execution Changes is titled in alphanumeric code. The geometric pattern that composes each acrylic-on-panel painting is determined by a preordained ratio of 2 to 3. But even though a formulaic system determines the image’s structure, its surface is full of painterly effects. While the minimalist appearance of these works references similarly striped paintings by Frank Stella, Hoeber does not emphasize the painting’s underlying structure but instead tugs it apart and obscures it. Layers of paint betray the image not as surface-and-support, but as presence with depth.
Many of Chaves and Gilda’s works use recycled cardboard. For Partituras, they arranged stacks of cardboard into long rectangles on the ground, which are visually analogous to fields of graphite in Chaves’s pencil drawings. While the blocks have a spare presence in space, they exist more full solidity within their borders, and the recycled nature of the cardboard adds some play into the clean minimalist rectangles and cubes.
Apartment on Cardboard (2000) is an exterior view of an abstracted apartment building. Viewers unwittingly become voyeurs, peering through the rectangles that stand for windows and observing the residents therein, who ponder questions both mundane and existential: “Where is Ron now?” and “What have I become?” The queries and characters are treated democratically—not judged, praised, or subjected to hierarchy. While their thoughts are specific, the painting captures a universal urban activity: looking across to the building next door and wondering about its residents, all the while knowing that they have probably looked over and wondered about us, as well.

Calle’s drawings all inhabit received forms but alter them to call attention to specific qualities. A newspaper is both reproduced and modified to call attention to the newspaper as a means of information transmission. This also emphasizes the effect of various seemingly unimportant support mechanisms: the role of visual layout and images. In other drawings Calle explores systems: the unfurling of suburban streets, resembling text and the veins on a leaf. These congruences point to the unity of Calle’s thematic interests: the circulation of information, human energies, and lives.
In Laissez-Faire (Rainbow Flag) da Cunha has turned a beach towel into both a painting and a flag. Where the printed surface of the towel originally served to enliven this commodity, here the pattern—now stretched and re-presented—suddenly refers to abstract painting’s promises of transcendence. And its crisply painted shape pulls the printed colors into the rectangularity of the canvas and, as da Cunha notes, the graphic iconicity of flags.
Residencia Milan 1 is a painting of a house surrounded by lush forest. The image depicted is both photorealistic and creates the illusion of an unfolded piece of paper, with creases and discolorations. In referring to the circulation of images, the painting raises questions of a viewer’s relationship to the image of a beautiful house: as icon, wish, or standard of beauty.
In Reyes’s words, “We should be able to extract the technological nutrients before we excrete our waste. There is a missing organ in our social metabolism which would work as a stomach or intestines. The Recyclone is a device made of plastic containers that fit into each other. (The plastic boxes are the equivalent to the ‘vellum,’ which are the tiny hairs that stick out from the intestinal wall to absorb nutrients). The permutation of this plastic bins could be customized to satisfy anyone’s recycling needs.” This work offers the possibility of a more visually appealing and adaptable recycling mechanism, assisting in the conscientious extraction of reusable material from industrial products.
The series West (Flag 1), West (Flag 3), and West (Flag 6) continues da Cunha’s ongoing exploration of the form’s various vertical, horizontal, and diagonal stripes. Here, da Cunha overlays thick bars of color (blue, green, and red) on photographs of the ocean at sunset with surfers in floating on the horizon. The solid colors contrast with the fading colors reflected in the sunset, and the tilted orientation suggests a familiar California beach scene.
Abraham Cruzvillegas is known for elegant constructions of found materials. He creates sculptures out of, in hiswords, "wool, sheep shit, chicken wire, discarded furniture, cardboard, stones, grass and my own hair". Thesematerials, as well as the content and presentation of Cruzvillegas' work, reflect the practices growing out of amarginalized world, pushed aside by private property and capital, such as protest songs and self-built homes.This aspect of his work ties in as well as the public performance and collaboration that undergird some ofCruzvillegas' projects.
Alexandre da Cunha reinvents found objects, often offering a surprising combination of the material recognizability of Arte Povera with the concerns and techniques of painting. Da Cunha's work often features flags, either as a found material or as what other objects are turned into. In referring to flags, da Cunha deals with issues of nationality, governmental politics, allegiance and culture. 
The two drawings in the Kadist Collection are part of a larger series entitled Las Mariposas Eternas (The Eternal Butterflies). They are studies for two large sculptures that explore the role of monuments and emblems in the configuration of Latin American national identities. The first drawing reproduces an equestrian statue of Juan Lavalle, one of Argentina’s independence heroes. The second drawing shows a Japanese anime character riding a monster, suggesting how an equestrian monument in a globalized future would look like.
Chris Johanson’s Untitled (Painting of a Man Leaving in Boat) (2010) pictures a canoe drifting toward an off-kilter horizon line, which demarcates the cobalt sea from the cerulean sky. An orange-haired figure, oar positioned in mid-stroke, looks ahead—whether toward an edge or an infinite expanse, it is impossible to tell. Echoing a trope that recurs in Greek epic poetry, transcendental painting, and current-day reality television, the character is alone with nature. We witness—and likely empathize with—his voyage.

The triptych I am a Human, Abstract Foil, No Humans IV (2004) is a meditation on the cosmos. The work consists of three small paintings: one of a man with a head made of multicolored fragments (I am a Human), one of an abstract rainbow colored geometric form on foil (Abstract Foil) and what appears to be a brightly burning star or a representation of the Big Bang (No Humans IV). In a playful but serious manner, the work envisions the evolution of the world and the creative forces at play in nature and humankind.
Killed is a video projection in which William E. Jones appropriated and edited, in a rapid sequence, a selection from the more than 68,000 censored or discarded films produced by the Farm Security Administration’s photographers between 1935 and 1943. Roy Emerson Stryker, the then director of the program, was in charge of what he called “killing” negatives by punching holes in them to render them unusable. Killed continues Jones’s use of discarded film footage seen in his video created from vintage 1970s and 1980s gay porn that was included in the 2008 Whitney Biennial. By recuperating lost and rather unseen pictures by emblematic American photographers such as Walker Evans, Theodor Jung, Carl Mydans, among others, Killed sheds a new light on the way American history has been written and the crucial role images have played in it. 
In the early 20th century, the Hercules Engine Company was doing a brisk business producing customized, heavy-duty engines. Seventy years later, when the United States military started opting for Humvees and stock parts, the company began to fail, and it entirely ceased production in 1999. Hercules Engines, Abandoned, Canton, Ohio (2011) depicts the manufacturer’s former productive core, gone fallow. A sapling has grown up in the loading dock, and a view straight through the industrial interior shows a field on the other side. In this photograph, William E.Jones uses architectural photography as social documentary, personifying the industrial space to such a degree that it becomes metonymic of a once-powerful industry past its prime.
Los Angeles based artist and filmmaker William E. Jones appropriates vintage film material that he rearranges in new compositions. Often concerned with the way gay imagery was depicted in 1970s and 1980s his early films explored complex configuration of homosexual identity with a rather nostalgic and romantized gaze. Later pieces fashioned in the same way looked more directly into pornography and the appearance of fetish in popular culture.
There are several elements to Subject, Silver, Prism. Silver ink is applied to blocks of black foam. A simple stand, reminiscent of cheap furniture, supports a drum constructed from deer hide stretched over plastic cooking bowls and held taut by the hide and twine. The tightness of the drum and the stiffness of its table offset the floppy softness of the black foam. The semantic and visual echo between the pots-and-pans drums of suburban children and the deer hide and wood drums of First Nations people are literally bound together in this piece. 
Lens Flare and the series Untitled Basel Lens Flare (6168, 5950, 7497) were part of a solo project by the artist presented at ArtBasel in 2009. Included in the Kadist Collection, these works continue to explore the ontology of the image to investigate the relationship between painting, photography, and a new time-based variable: film. Reduced here to the essential function of recording the exposure of light through the apparatus of a lens, Kantor then translated these film stills into painted colored canvases that retain the 3:4 aspect ratio of the 16mm film as well as the exact size of the projected image. The resulting paintings depict the “lens flares” in the film—the fleeting reflective glare inside the camera apparatus that results from when its lens is pointed directly at a bright light source.
Lens Flare and the series Untitled Basel Lens Flare (6168, 5950, 7497) were part of a solo project by the artist presented at ArtBasel in 2009. Included in the Kadist Collection, these works continue to explore the ontology of the image to investigate the relationship between painting, photography, and a new time-based variable: film. Reduced here to the essential function of recording the exposure of light through the apparatus of a lens, Kantor then translated these film stills into painted colored canvases that retain the 3:4 aspect ratio of the 16mm film as well as the exact size of the projected image. The resulting paintings depict the “lens flares” in the film—the fleeting reflective glare inside the camera apparatus that results from when its lens is pointed directly at a bright light source.
Eclipse is a series of screenprints from Kantor’s larger vitrine installation that included reworkings of a single image of a small group viewing an eclipse through shielding cut-outs. Printed on a clear surface, the work plays with ideas of obstruction and viewing, connecting spectacular natural phenomena with contemporary art making.
Towhead n’Ganga, enclosed in darkness, lorded over by the sexualized folded high priestless form reflects many of Kelley’s works, in both its compositional and semantic qualities. The drawing on wood, the popcorn mixture, and the title all manifest a bumpy fullness, a “more-is-more” conflation between supposedly eternal spirituality and everyday stuff. The work’s title points to a serious timelessness completely belied by the materials. While the composition is attractive, the objects themselves efface a potentially straightforward meaning. This is underscored by the label left on the outer bucket, which keeps it tethered to everyday life and away from the free-floating and romantic mysticism associated with the installations of Joseph Beuys.
Untitled (San Francisco) was made in Idaho in 1984 and was facetiously dedicated to Henry Hopkins, the then director of the San Francisco Museum of Art who added “modern” to its name. Assembled from the remnants and found objects from a hotel room, including a collage, shelf and small lamp, this playful piece—a satirical shrine of sorts—echoes the decidedly un-modern spirit of San Francisco’s bohemian culture. Kienholz’s works, with their critical and anti-establishment content, are often linked to the 1960s Funk Art movement in the Bay Area.
Lambri’s careful framing in Untitled (Miller House, #02) redefines our understanding of this iconic mid-century modernist building located in Columbus, Indiana. Commissioned by industrialist J. Irwin Miller and his wife Xenia Simons Miller, and built by Eero Saarinen in 1953, the Miller house’s open and flowing layout expands upon modernist architectural traditions. It features a flat roof, stone and glass walls, with rooms configured beneath a grid pattern of skylights and supporting cruciform steel columns. Rather than a distanced view of the overall structure—favored by modernist architectural photographers like Julius Shulman—Lambri instead works from the inside, focusing on Saarinen’s windows and the soft, even light. The resulting image is a poetic abstraction, an architectural photograph that yields not only a picture of a building, but suggests what it actually feels like to be in that architectural space.
Custom-built for a silent film star in 1934 in Santa Monica, the Sten-Frenke House is an idiosyncratic icon. Designed by the architect Richard Neutra, its gray glass, white expanses, and simple forms exude austerity. Luisa Lambri’s photograph Untitled (Sten-Frenke House #04) (2007)recalls the unembellished elegance of the structure while also alluding to modernist painting; the image is less a picture than an abstract expanse that conveys its own flatness. Whereas avant-garde paintings strove to suggest nothing but their own essence, Lambri inverts this aim, using the two-dimensionality of the photographic print to point elsewhere.
Inspired by Russian avant-garde artist Alexander Rodchenko (1891–1956), Untitled (Alexander Rodchenko,1928) is a series of self-portraits of a vintage Leica I camera, the first 35mm camera and the same model Rodchenko used). Taken by the camera itself with the help of an mirrored optical device, these images narrate and reflect the camera’s own history and identity.  As with most of Lee’s work, this background information is not conveyed in any obvious way, but, instead, through allusions in titles and sleights of formal strategies. Cultural history, as Lee emphasizes, is not stable and fixed; it is in a state of perpetual flux, “constantly shifting and changing, continually, repeatedly and endlessly.”
In the series Horizons (2010), Lipps uses appropriation to riff on Modernism’s fascination with abstract form. For Untitled (Men) (2011), he snipped from magazines and textbooks pictures of handsome or famous men, from the ancient Greek to the modern. Arranged in a tableau, lit theatrically, and rephotographed, the two-dimensional figures have an embodied presence. While orange and blue lights transform them into a cohesive community, their ordered arrangement also draws out their smallness and flatness, deflating any hypothesis of a great empire or platonic ideal with one carefully calculated swipe.

Untitled (Women) (2011) presents a startlingly succinct history of violently romanticized femininity. Matt Lipps created this diptych by photographing a single arrangement of cutouts. As in his analogous portrait of men, the middle section appears twice, on either side of the split, signaling a stutter, a caesura, or a schizophrenic break. Within the cluster, fashion photography exists alongside frescoes, and demure piety butts up against unabashed sexuality. The women are bound not only by a fuchsia floodlight but also by a shared history. Western conceptions of beauty and eroticism are shown to sample widely and gluttonously, from tribal dance to a cowl-necked sweater.
Lockhart’s film Lunch Break investigates the present state of American labor through a close look at the everyday life of the workers at the Bath Iron Works shipyard—a private sector of the U.S. naval shipbuilding company—in Maine. Gary Gilpatrick, Insulator (2008) belongs to a group of portrait-like photographs of the shipyard’s workers lunchboxes. Created over the period of a year, Lockhart’s film and accompanying still photographs are intended as an exploration of the social spaces inside this kind of workplace. At the turn of the nineteenth century, the factory was an emblem for the American way of life; today, those same factories and an entire generation of the working class seem on the verge of disappearance as a result of political and economic global capitalism.
Lockhart’s film Lunch Break investigates the present state of American labor, through a close look at the everyday life of the workers at the Bath Iron Works shipyard—a private sector of the U.S. naval shipbuilding company—in Maine. Stanley “Tom” Durrell, Tinsmith (2008) belongs to a group of portrait-like photographs of the shipyard’s workers lunchboxes. Created over the period of a year, Lockhart’s film and accompanying still photographs are intended as an exploration of the social spaces inside this kind of workplace. At the turn of the nineteenth century, the factory was an emblem for the American way of life; today, those same factories and an entire generation of the working class seem on the verge of disappearance as a result of political and economic global capitalism.
Visalia Livestock Market, Visalia, California results from Lockhart’s prolonged investigation of an agricultural center and community. Lockhart traveled around California’s Central Valley, spending time with cattle ranchers on their properties and attending livestock auctions with them and getting a sense of the rhythm of their lives. Throughout this time, the artist shot more than one hundred four-by-five-inch negatives but chose to print just this one from the series. 
A painting reminiscent of a certain “naive primitivism,” Untitled (Colors) and  Untitled (Ghost) are representative of McCarthy’s work. Upon first encounter, her abstract colorful compositions resemble somewhat formal nonrepresentational landscapes. However, a closer inspection reveals the presence of a lowbrow style that draws inspiration both from outsider and folk art traditions.   
A painting reminiscent of a certain “naive primitivism,” Untitled (the way in is the way out) is representative of McCarthy’s work. Upon first encounter, her abstract colorful compositions resemble somewhat formal nonrepresentational landscapes. However, a closer inspection reveals the presence of a lowbrow style that draws inspiration both from outsider and folk art traditions. 
Memory Mistake of the Eldridge Cleaver Pants was created for the show Paul McCarthy’s Low Life Slow Life Part 1, held at California College of the Arts’s Wattis Institute in 2008 and curated by McCarthy himself. In homage to an influence in his early career, McCarthy attempted to reconstruct a pair of pants worn by Black Panther revolutionary Eldridge Cleaver in a picture that appeared in Rolling Stone magazine in the 1970s. But in the process, McCarthy misremembered their original design of the pants, which had black outer panels and white inner panels in white, and left a black shape highlighted in the crotch area. Instead, McCarthy’s reconstruction divides the pants vertically in two black and white sections. McCarthy’s mistake speaks not only of the fallibility of memory but of a certain kind of queerness that resists any categorical—“black or white”—definition. Memory Mistake’s use of aesthetic formalism, error, subjectivity, and social history can be seen to challenge the tropes of modernism and art history.
McCarthy’s Mother Pig performance at Shushi Gallery in 1983 was the first time he used a set, a practice which came to characterize his later works. Here, McCarthy squirts liquid out of a bottle held near his crotch onto a stuffed animal in the shape of a lion. The costuming, materials, and simulated bodily functions frequently appear in McCarthy’s work, which often disturbingly juxtaposes visceral and startling manipulation of the body with the cheerful artifacts of popular consumer culture. 
McGee’s Untitled is a collection of roughly fifty, framed photographs, paintings, and text pieces clustered together in corner. Its tiled effect can perhaps be seen as a vertical Carl Andre work and also bears some resemblance to another work in the Kadist Collection, Jedediah Caesar’s JCA-25-SC. McGee’s installation also echoes the votive altars in the chapels he visited during his residency in Brazil in 1993. One almost expects to see candles lit below the work honoring the dead or loved ones in crisis. This is appropriate since the individual elements in Untitled depict and honor the disenfranchised, outcasts, and sometimes ghosts of San Francisco street life.  
  
Uncertain Pilgrimage is an ongoing project in which Moore draws from his unplanned travels in recent years. Many of the pieces are found objects and discarded materials that he has transformed into tools and eccentric prop-like sculptures to help him on his journeys. Map (from Uncertain Pilgrimage) is one such object that could be a metaphor for the whole project: a simple empty paper map that has no location written on it. 
 The video Interrupted Passage presents a performance Morales staged in the former home of Mariano Guadalupe Vallejo, a mid-nineteenth-century Mexican general serving in California. Reenacted here is Vallejo’s acquiescence to Americans who were attempting to overthrow Mexican governance of the region. When a small militia arrived at Vallejo’s house to arrest him, he invited them in and shared a meal. The emphasis on the role of food in Morales’s version connects this historic event to the current proliferation of food-based culture and social interaction in California. 
Julio Cesar Morales’s watercolor drawings, Undocumented Intervention, show a variety of surprising hiding places assumed by people trying to cross into the United States without documentation. Morales drew inspiration from both his childhood near the United States-Mexico border as well as from photographic documentation on U.S. government websites.
Donald of Doom Tank (2008) is a replica of a vintage metal toy with Donald Duck’s image one side and a soldier on the other. During World War II, the Walt Disney Company produced series of cartoon shorts that featured Donald Duck’s nightmare of working in an inhumane artillery factory in Nazi Germany and serving in the U.S. Army. By animating and normalizing war and military life, these cartoons not only achieved widespread popularity, but functioned as government propaganda.  
Jeep Comics is based on the second of only two issues published by RB Leffingwell and Company in 1944–45. Though largely unknown, their protagonists, Jeep and Peep, embody the ethos of “Golden Age” comic books in which magically empowered heroes triumph over evils to boost patriotic enthusiasm.
 Like many of Opie’s works, Mike and Sky presents female masculinity to defy a binary understanding of gender. The very practice of being photographed raises many complex issues around gender performance and the relationships between an inner self and an outer public persona. Even though Mike and Sky are cropped and obscure one another, many of their choices for self-presentation—as emphasized by their tattoos—remain visible. 
Alistair Fate (1994) depicts, presumably, a member of the LGBT community. Catherine Opie is known for her portraits of LGBT, queer, and outsider people; she intends them to come off not as shocking or different, but as human despite their deviance from societal norms. This image is one of several works by Opie in the Kadist Collection that show marginalized people, filtered through the artist’s signature appropriation of formal and classical portraiture in the interest of both documentation and reframing.
Catherine Opie’s candid photograph Cathy (bed Self-portrait) (1987) shows the artist atop a bed wearing a negligee and a dildo; the latter is attached to a whip that she holds in her teeth. Opie is known for her honest portraits of diverse individuals, from LGBT people to football players, and the self-portrait has also been a long-standing and important part of her practice. Instead of hiding her sexuality and interest in sadomasochism, Opie wears it proudly. Photographed at a time when artistic freedoms were generally under attack in America, Opie’s full-frontal reveal is a kind of revolutionary moment, signifying that expression cannot and will not be suppressed.
The five works included in the Kadist Collection are representative of Pettibon’s complex drawings which are much more narrative than comics or cartoon. The images allude to recurring topics, such as the superhero (present both in Untitled Superman and No title without the comics), a book cover (his literary sources), or a mushroom cloud. Inspired by the writings of William Faulkner, Daniel Defoe, Gustave Flaubert, Marcel Proust, and James Joyce, Pettibon’s sophisticated, witty drawings combine image and text to explore the gamut of American popular culture.
 The five works included in the Kadist Collection are representative of Pettibon’s complex drawings which are much more narrative than comics or cartoon. The images allude to recurring topics, such as the superhero (present both in Untitled Superman and No title without the comics), a book cover (his literary sources), or a mushroom cloud. Inspired by the writings of William Faulkner, Daniel Defoe, Gustave Flaubert, Marcel Proust, and James Joyce, Pettibon’s sophisticated, witty drawings combine image and text to explore the gamut of American popular culture. 
The five works included in the Kadist Collection are representative of Pettibon’s complex drawings which are much more narrative than comics or cartoon. The images allude to recurring topics, such as the superhero (present both in Untitled Superman and No title without the comics), a book cover (his literary sources), or a mushroom cloud. Inspired by the writings of William Faulkner, Daniel Defoe, Gustave Flaubert, Marcel Proust, and James Joyce, Pettibon’s sophisticated, witty drawings combine image and text to explore the gamut of American popular culture.
The five works included in the Kadist Collection are representative of Pettibon’s complex drawings which are much more narrative than comics or cartoon. The images allude to recurring topics, such as the superhero (present both in Untitled Superman and No title without the comics), a book cover (his literary sources), or a mushroom cloud. Inspired by the writings of William Faulkner, Daniel Defoe, Gustave Flaubert, Marcel Proust, and James Joyce, Pettibon’s sophisticated, witty drawings combine image and text to explore the gamut of American popular culture.
The five works included in the Kadist Collection are representative of Pettibon’s complex drawings which are much more narrative than comics or cartoon. The images allude to recurring topics, such as the superhero (present both in Untitled Superman and No title without the comics), a book cover (his literary sources), or a mushroom cloud. Inspired by the writings of William Faulkner, Daniel Defoe, Gustave Flaubert, Marcel Proust, and James Joyce, Pettibon’s sophisticated, witty drawings combine image and text to explore the gamut of American popular culture.
Untitled (Wall Street’s Chosen Few...) is typical of Pettibon’s drawings in which fragments of text and image are united, but yet gaps remain in their signification. A full story seems present but is not fully within the viewer’s grasp. Here, Pettibon draws a connection between legal restrictions on free speech and the power of an elite on Wall Street. The drawing correlates market fears to the panic that results from a warning shouted in a crowded theater. Pettibon offers no resolution, only starbursts that resemble both the beauty of fireworks and suggest oncoming explosions.
Priola pays particular attention to otherwise unnoticed details in the cityscape, a quality that not only recurs throughout his oeuvre, but which also places his work in line with a strong tradition of California documentary photography. Close-ups and attention to detail reveal something different: a portrait of what is usually discarded or missing, like unassuming weep holes in Alameda Street or minuscule weeds making their way up through the pavement in Chestnut Street. But these details are subtle to the point of being conceptual; from afar both images appear to be monochromes. 
Telescopic Pole is an adjustable telescopic pole that extends vertically from floor to ceiling and is held up by its own internal pressure. The ends, protected by two, cut-open tennis balls, recall the legs of a walker. For Rantanen’s second solo exhibition at Jancar Jones Gallery, San Francisco in 2010, one pole was placed inside the gallery while the other was located outside. This visual echo both suggested reflection and called attention to the physical viewing conditions. The muffled poles seemed to connect the spaces, to hold them up and together, while the fixity of their positions was in tension with the idea of movement suggested by the allusion to a walking-aid. 
MUM, the acronym used to title a series of Rogan’s small interventions on found magazines, stands for “Magic Unity Might,” the name of a vintage trade magic publication. In the series, Rogan alters the magazine’s pages by erasing the image of the magicians doing their tricks, leaving only the background of their performances on view. These contexts range from the more overtly staged scenario in Silencer #16—the erased magician is about to perform a trick on his assistant trapped on an odd, almost dada looking box—to the more “colloquial” Silencer #17 in which the absent magician’s silhouette appears in what seems to be a children’s hospital.  Rogan’s interventions attest to their own creation by way of the subtle marks and erasure used to remove the original visual information. Such evidence of the artist’s hand echoes the magician’s sleight-of-hand in the image and suggests the illusory character of all representation. By extension, the remaining white voids are uncanny, ghostly stand-ins for the performer and artist who both haunt the scene. 
Rojas’s two pieces in the Kadist Collection—Untitled (four-legged…) and Untitled (Bird’s Eyes)—are representative of her pictorial style which uses bold colorful blocks of paint and female and animal characters. While Untitled (Bird’s Eyes) does not depict any actual women, it nevertheless alludes to gender roles and the power of the female gaze. Apparently playful, this scene of two animals has an ominous quality: A bird and a hedgehog confront at each other and the bird appears to be poking, even eating the hedgehog’s eye. 
Rojas’s two pieces in the Kadist Collection—Untitled (four-legged…) and Untitled (Bird’s Eyes)—are representative of her pictorial style which uses bold colorful blocks of paint and female and animal characters. While Untitled (Bird’s Eyes) does not depict any actual women, it nevertheless alludes to gender roles and the power of the female gaze. Apparently playful, this scene of two animals has an ominous quality: A bird and a hedgehog confront at each other and the bird appears to be poking, even eating the hedgehog’s eye. 
Conrad Ruiz loves to paint subjects related to the “boy zone”: video games, weapons, games, science fiction, fantasy, and special effects. He also often works at a very large scale to emphasize a connection to the tradition of history painting. Blockbuster (2011) was, at the time of its creation, the largest watercolor painting he had ever made. This commissioned piece combines his bombastic and playful style with a tribute to San Francisco’s thriving arts and culture scenes. It is a lively depiction of famous landmarks in the city, and a somewhat fanciful and lighthearted recapitulation of how a potential earthquake would shake things up in the ultimate “boy zone.”
 In Whose Needs, the titular phrase floats on the surface of what appears to be a blurred landscape. Two vertical structures rise from the landscape to suggest a factory building with smoky chimneys fuming into the sunset. Ruscha’s use of typography and the aesthetics of advertising add to the image’s uncanny effect. 
For the collage U.S. Treasury Nose Segalove appropriated an image of a governmental-type agent inspecting an object on a table with a magnifying glass. By inserting written comments like “not a straw,” “not a spoon,” “not a razor blade,” the artist equates the inspector with a cocaine user. In this way, with keen, deadpan humor, the artist refers to all the stereotypes and social clichés associated with drug abuse particularly in the 1970s. At the same time U.S. Treasury Nose suggests illegal activity related to drugs within the American government and its policies. 
San Pedro is a seaside city. Part of the Los Angeles Harbor, it sits on the edge of a channel. Attempt to correlate social class with elevation above main harbor channel (San Pedro, July 1975) is a series of coupled gelatin silver prints which show the artist using his hand to mete out the elevation of various real estate plots there, ranging from a manicured mansion to a ramshackle beach house. A direct equation becomes evident between the social strata these homes represent, and the height at which the artist holds his hand. By assigning a simple, visual value to an otherwise murky undercurrent, Sekula surfaces issues of class and subjects them to unconventional inquiry.
The two large-scale stereoscopic photographs in That’s That’s Alright Alright Mama Mama depict a recreation of Elvis Presley’s recording studio in Memphis, Tennessee. This study in doubles is underscored by its title, which repeats and doubles Elvis’s original song title. The images are hung in a specially angled wall and the viewers are provided special 3-D glasses in order to contemplate the image. The final result is the three-dimensional experience of a reconstructed site. More than a mere play with optical illusions and perception, Soo’s operation plays with the idea of the original and the replica to comment on the illusory character of any reconstruction, reproduction, or representation.
The three Maikos were included in Ron Terada’s 2008 exhibition, Voight–Kampf, at Catriona Jeffries gallery. More ambitious in size and subject matter, this show with its complex video installation marked a new path for Terada’s work. Voight-Kampf is based on a scene from Ridley Scott’s 1982 movie Blade Runner in which a giant advertising billboard in the midst of a dystopian city of Los Angeles in the future displays a geisha eating candy. Terada used this image as a point of departure to explore issues of racial identity, the nature of photographic representation, and the liminal space between fiction and reality. In each of the three Maiko photographs that accompanied the exhibition, a Caucasian woman poses a Geisha and look directly at the camera. The images reinforce the staged and artificial nature of racial categories and stereotypes, but also speak to the excesses brought about by an accelerated consumer culture.
In Perpetual Motion (2005), the seemingly erratic flight of the bright orange Monarch butterfly—filmed in its winter habitat of Michoacán, Mexico—is intensified by the artist’s editing in which frames are randomly dropped and the film is sped up. As a result, the butterflies become hyper-real and animated in appearance. The manipulated footage is presented in a video wall of nine monitors, where the butterflies flit from screen to screen, in a room bathed in vivid orange light.
In No Title (Blue Chapel) Therrien has reduced the image of a chapel to a polygon. The object and its ground both glow, but the chapel-shape is crisp and simple, reminiscent of a piece of cut paper. Like many of Therrien’s early pieces, this abstraction slips into representation and the visual and spiritual power of the image is emphasized by the strong central placement of the chapel.
In Thomson’s Untitled (TIME), every front cover of TIME magazine is sequentially projected to scale at thirty frames per second. In a way, this work both examines the construction of history and the history of the influential magazine, which was founded in 1923. In addition to the play on “time”—one of Thomson’s ongoing obsessions—this piece highlights and continues the artist’s encyclopedic impulse, also seen in The White Album (2008), to record the history of the spaces he inhabits.
 The White Album (2008) presents a compilation of one hundred issues of Artforum magazine released between 1970 and 1979. As with Will Rogan’s MUM series, also included in the Kadist Collection, vital information is now missing: All of all the articles and features have been removed, leaving only ten years of advertisements. In an unusual way, The White Album reminds us that this important New York-focused magazine was originally founded in 1962 in San Francisco to promote Bay Area artists before it moved to Los Angeles in the mid-1960s in search of a wider advertising base. Thomson’s encyclopedic gesture not only exposes the magazine’s commercial scaffolding, but takes aim at a critical period in the rise of the art market. 
Vallance’s Rocket is a vibrant picture in which masses of color and collage coalesce into a central vehicle, yet the whole surface seems lit with the roar of space travel. This varied use of media has enabled the artist to bring all of the life, energy, and objects he works with into a single image. 
As suggested by its title, Pipe Opening (2002) depicts a hole in a wood wall exposed by the removal of a pipe. In contrast to his signature immense tableaux, Pipe Opening is a direct but modest document of a “real” scene that Wall “encountered by chance” in daily life. However factual, the image indicates certain enigmatic significance, allowing multiple interpretations. Wall encourages the viewer to engage with the scenario to imagine the before and the after of the moment. Compared to his earlier work, Wall’s photographs appear to be straight-up snapshots, exhibiting less manipulative details. The fictional details are not conveyed through obvious arrangements but due to the very nature of photographs: What they record is always an incomplete view of the world.
Untitled (Breathless) presents a folded newspaper article on Jean-Luc Godard’s À Bout de Souffle (Breathless). The work uses collage techniques—it is stapled down and has a thick strip of contact sheet paper taped over it—that convert the media coverage on Godard’s film into a filmic object itself. The black paper enacts a kind of cinematic “jump cut” on the article, while simultaneously drawing attention to the medium of the film, as well as the photograph reproduced in this newspaper article. The composition has a casual and dynamic stylishness to it (as do the movie stars lying in bed), which is contradicted somewhat by the static utilitarian aesthetic of the piece’s construction. The tape and staples hold the more dominant visual elements in place and recall printmaking tools.
Ammo Bunker (2009) is a multipart installation that includes large-scale wall prints and an architectural model. The work takes as its departure point the history of Wilmington, Ybarra’s native hometown in southern Los Angeles. The piece refers to a Civil War era ammunition store that Ybarra found at the heart of the harbor close to Long Beach. The facility was later used as a temporary prison to hold different people coming from Mexico to Los Angeles during the Civil War. The building’s walls are covered with different marks and inscriptions from that time—what Ybarra likes to call L.A.’s earliest graffiti and which today coexist with recent gang tags. By pointing out the presence of these two kinds of inscriptions in the same historical place, Ybarra furthers his investigation into the intertwining of Mexican-American and Anglo-American social and cultural histories in Southern California. 
At first glance, Cityscapes (2010) seems to be a collection of well-documented panoramic photographs of the city of Istanbul, which might be found on postcards in souvenir shops. However, closer examination reveals that the one element has been removed from the cityscape which subsequently strips the history and religious character of the city: the minaret. The work is a response to a November 2009 referendum in Switzerland that approved a ban on the construction of new minarets in the country. It was also a crucial moment of Turkey’s negotiation for her entrance to the European community. Instead of making direct and didactic comment on the controversy, Abbas brings forward the question about how symbolic landmark is interpreted vastly different in various cultural contexts. On the one hand, the minarets have been seen as symbols of political Islam in the Western imagination. On the other hand, in the Muslim world, they stand as memory organs that allow the city to recognize itself which are part of everyday objects, belonging to the communities.
The staged images were captured against the backdrop of the city’s empty streets at sundown during the holy month of Ramadan. During the time, the Muslims fast and retreat indoor, leaving the city in an eerily atmosphere. Through portraying ordinary citizens from religious minorities, the photographs reclaim the occupation of public space. The often- domestic gestures are brought forward and presented in the streets. In Karachi Series I (Chandra Acharya), a middle- aged woman is sitting in front of a dressing table plaiting her hair. The royal-blue sari revealed her identity. While in Karachi Series I (Ken DeSouza), the man in white shirt is polishing his shoes without furthering revealing his identity. Presented in light boxes, their backlit luminosity exaggerates the absurdity and strangeness of these images. By situating them in the specific time and locations, Abidi tests the political potentials of these everyday gestures.
Lu has developed an oeuvre that consists of characters in bizarre situations. The large-scale photograph I Want to Be a Gentleman depicts nine men standing like statues on display in a museum on tall plinths in front of a run-down industrial building. Lu’s brooding films and photographs are preoccupied with China’s industrial era and communist history.
A mesmerizing experience of a vaguely familiar yet remote world, History of Chemistry I follows a group of men as they wander from somewhere beyond the edge of the sea through a vast landscape to an abandoned steel factory. Using long shots and atypical settings, Lu enigmatically refers to a distant history while conveying the sense of dislocation wrought by successive stages of modernization. The combination of elaborate landscape shots from the suburbs of Shanghai and Lu’s signature style of spare and minimally crafted acting offers a surreal view of human behavior in spaces marked by the hulking remnants of China’s extraordinary development. 
Since 2007, Cao has radically focused her work on Second Life, an online space that virtually mimics “the real world” and includes everything from the expression of ideas to economic investment. Referring to China’s modernization and its capitalist and utopic visions, RMB City explores the ways in which global communication impacts imagination, values, and ways of life. By appropriating virtual reality, Cao opens up a new frontier in the field of art production that surpasses conventional materiality and invites collaboration and exchanges with her public and clients.
Diversionist is part of the Cosplayers Series from 2004. In Cosplayers Cao depicts the popularity among Asian youths of “cosplay” in which daily life is merged with images of video games and popular films. For many, this virtual reality is an outlet to “transcend” the paradox of a developing society in which the pleasures of consumption and depression of alienation go hand-in-hand. Cao sensitively captures the new social consciousness and activism, beautifully translating them into photographic and video works. 
To explore the boundaries between artwork and audience, Gimhongsok created a series of sculptural performances in which a person wearing an animal costume poses in the gallery. Bunny’s Sofa is a continuation of this series, but with a different twist. Instead of hiring a real person to dress as the animal, Gimhongsok placed a mannequin inside the rabbit costume. When exhibiting the work, the artist produces a false statement claiming that he has paid an illegal worker from North Korea to wear the suit and to maintain a lounging posture for a certain length of time. But both the performer and the financial transaction existed only in the text, truths concealed by the costume and social propriety. By interchanging physical realities and contexts and obscuring details, Gimhongsok challenges the effectiveness of visual and textual communication to create a potential moral anxiety in the viewers.
The application of bright colors and kitsch materials in Flower Tree manifests a playful comment on the influence of popular culture and urban lifestyle. And though his works share a similar sensibility to Claes Oldenburg’s oversized sculptures from everyday objects, Choi draws from his immediate surroundings and life experience. Public sculptures with a flower theme are often used to decorate the rapidly urbanized cities in Asia, which are constructed with concrete and steel materials. Ironically, these public sculptures are usually also superficial and made from the same unnatural materials. Thus, while seeming to be a celebration of nature’s beauty and the need for imagination when living in an environment with a diminishing natural aesthetic, Flower Tree embodies the paradox of modern life.
The Third Seal—They Are Already Old. They Don’t Need To Exist Anymore is part of The Seven Seals, Tsang’s ongoing series of digital videos that are projected as installations onto the walls and ceilings of dark rooms. Using texts and computer technology, the series draws its reference from various sources—the Bible, Judeo-Christian eschatology, existentialism, metaphysics, politics, among others—to articulate the world’s complexity and the dilemmas that people face while approaching “the end of the world.” The Third Seal is a nineteen-by-twenty-seven-foot projection on a single wall that, together with sound, creates an immersive and dynamic environment. Crawling up from the bottom of the wall are black, worm-like texts that comment on class struggle, revolutionary riots, labor and production, human existence, and social justice. Without a clear beginning or end, the work suggests a cycle and the non-linear nature of history, and, by extension, life and death.
New Town Ghost (2005) is one of Lim’s trio of large-scale video installations. (The other two are S.O.S—Adoptive Dissensus [2009] and The Weight of Hands [2010].) The series grew out of her interest in capturing lost memories and the collective unconscious in rapidly globalizing cities such as Seoul. New Town Ghost documents a young female activist who is standing aggressively on a truck, rapping slam poetry through a megaphone to the rhythm of a nearby drummer. The two performers are from the Yeongdeungpo district, which has been drastically transformed by development from an industrial zone into a “new town” full of giant department stores and mega-brands. Yeongdeungpo is symbolic of many transformations witnessed by a young generation of Koreans. For Lim it is a dystopian place where the idea of a better future is simply delusional. The poem, talking about the new malls, the skyscrapers derides not only neoliberalism but also the indifferent citizens who have apparently sold their souls to it.
Nugroho’s installations and performances have their roots in the shadow puppet rituals in Indonesia, particularly the Javanese Wayang tradition whose essence is in the representation of the shadows. Nugroho’s work both preserves traditional culture and offers a contemporary interpretation of it through his insertion of comical figures to comment on current social conditions. Moving Landscape includes characters such as a diamond-headed man, a UFO, and other items that appear frequently in Nugroho’s drawings and murals. The shadows and silhouettes rotate in a custom-made, lit tent structure to create a fantasy world that blurs the line between daily life and fiction. The narratives here are complex and ambiguous and speak to a range of psychological states that echo everyday reality. 
In the video installation A Gust of Wind, Zhang continues to explore notions of perspective and melds them seamlessly with a veiled but incisive social critique. His ultimate goal is to reveal the ways in which social image is constructed and to cast doubt on the ephemeral vision of a middle-class utopia offered by mass media.
Unregistered City is a series of eight photographs depicting different scenes of a vacant, apparently post-apocalyptic city: Some are covered by dust and others are submerged by water. Yet, ambiguous lights blink from buildings and yachts still sail on the water, and further observation reveals these structures to be miniatures manipulated by the artist through Photoshop and other postproduction image tools. The model city’s surroundings are themselves real abandoned spaces, perhaps an empty room, a wait-to-be demolished building, or a discarded bathtub. In this way, Unregistered City is a double play on a dystopia vision of urbanization: It is an imagined city built upon the actual ruins of cities and human life. Through a dark and entropic undertone and estranged urban arrangements, the artist does not just critique, but poses fundamental questions. 
After engaging primarily with video and photography for more than a decade, Chen turned to painting to explore the issue of urban change and memories—both personal and collective. This “return to origin” reveals an interesting critical reflection on the interactive relation between outside change and internal reflection, and the possibility for more experimental approaches that revive “traditional media.” Chen’s series Collective Memories depicts some of the most important architectural works and urban sites in modern Chinese society, especially those related to the history of revolutions. Instead of reproducing the images himself, Chen invited the public to participate in their making by using their fingers to paint directly on the paper or canvas. The resulting paintings made from hundreds of individual thumbprints embody and metaphorize the fragility and uncertain future of collective memories in a time of rapid urban expansion and globalization. 
After engaging primarily with video and photography for more than a decade, Chen turned to painting to explore the issue of urban change and memories—both personal and collective. This “return to origin” reveals an interesting critical reflection on the interactive relation between outside change and internal reflection, and the possibility for more experimental approaches that revive “traditional media.” For Ink Diary, Chen recorded his daily life and impressions within a rapidly-changing urban setting in ink wash paintings which he then turned into an animated film. The complex result of this simple process is both highly innovative and reflective of modernization.
The Last Post was inspired by Sikander’s ongoing interest in the colonial history of the sub-continent and the British opium trade with China. In this animation, layers of images, abstract forms, meaning, and metaphorical associations slowly unfold at the same time that more visual myths are created. The identity of the protagonist, a red-coated official, is indeterminate and suggestive of both the mercantilist policies that led to the Opium Wars with China and the cultural authority claimed by the Company school of painting over colonial India. Though situated in a particular historical context, The Last Post remains an open-ended narrative with infinite possibleinterpretations. The work’s scope and complexity is expanded further by its sound element, which was created by Du Yun, an artist and composer based in New York City.
Shanghai Biennale, Awaiting Your Arrival is an appropriation of the posters made to promote biennial art exhibitions. Displayed alongside the marketing posters of official biennials (Shanghai, Berlin, Venice, etc.) Displayed alongside the official marketing materials of biennials (Shanghai, Berlin, Venice, etc.) Xu’s works provide a satiric and provocative alternative to the official system and make publicly visible images of many realities. Biennials help various localities produce their own art scenes and provide playgrounds for the international art world to expand its activities and influences. This is a highly contradictory process that renders local productions globally visible, but yet risks reducing their complexity, difference, and independence. In a way, these temporary art exhibitions are the perfect example of the negative and positive impact of globalization that affects both social reality and personal destiny. Xu’s Biennials enact and publicize different “possible scenarios” that these contradictory factors might effect on the social imaginary.
Biennale, Dog is an appropriation of the posters made to promote biennial art exhibitions. Displayed alongside the official marketing materials of biennials (Shanghai, Berlin, Venice, etc.) Xu’s works provide a satiric and provocative alternative to the official system and make publicly visible images of many realities. Biennials help various localities produce their own art scenes and provide playgrounds for the international art world to expand its activities and influences. This is a highly contradictory process that renders local productions globally visible, but yet risks reducing their complexity, difference, and independence. In a way, these temporary art exhibitions are the perfect example of the negative and positive impact of globalization that affects both social reality and personal destiny. Xu’s Biennials enact and publicize different “possible scenarios” that these contradictory factors might effect on the social imaginary. 
Walking Through is one of a series of videos—sometimes humorous, often absurd—that record the artist’s performative interactions with objects in a particular site. Here, Tanaka has spread out various objects he collected throughout the city of Guangzhou. By fiddling with a window frame, water buckets, plastic bags, cardboard, soda bottles, and many other things, Tanaka creates fragile, temporary sculptures. Tanaka’s visceral and physical reactions to various circumstances within the video reflect the artist’s own perceptual relationship to that space. 
Tanaka’s unique understanding of objects and materials is reflected in the four photographs that document his Process of Blowing Flour. The images depict the gradual blowing away of a plate of flour held by Tanaka. Because his pose is static throughout the images, his presence is deemphasized and instead the viewer’s attention is drawn to the motion of the flour. The subtle contrast between the fixed and the flowing generates a sense of time and ephemerality, suggesting the infinite possibilities of chance to alter our inflexible perceptions. The aesthetic quality of the flowing flour also evidences the ability of the simplest gesture to generate spectacle.
Created for the Seventh Shanghai Biennale at the Shanghai Art Museum, Zhou Tao’s 1,2,3,4 records morning staff meetings in over forty shops and companies in the immediate vicinity of the People’s Square. Regardless of occupation, the employees count off and move in step to the rhythms of their companies’ corporate songs or chants, which are meant to build team spirit and corporate loyalty. Zhou’s practice alchemizes the ordinary surroundings into a theatre where his camera is not simply a recording apparatus but an extension of existence. The images it produces are not just detached spectacles: They are the agents that reveal the theatrical details suffused in mundane life.
For over five months, Zhou situated himself in an underdeveloped village surrounded by the high skyscrapers of Guangzhou to produce South Stone. Interweaving footage of a village’s landscape, residents, and animals with his seemingly absurd interventions with the place, South Stone indicates the equally incoherent social reality. Fluctuating between documentary and fiction, the film catalyzes alternative connections in time, and the emergence of imaginative spaces. Zhou’s practice alchemizes the ordinary surroundings into a theatre where he superimposes and interchanges the background and the stage, the viewer and the actor, the fact and the story line, the documentation and the representation. His camera is not simply a recording apparatus but an extension of existence, which requires active participation. The images it produces are not just detached spectacles: They are the agents that reveal the theatrical details suffused in mundane life.
Re: Looking marks a new phase in Wong’s work which connects his region’s history with other parts of the world. The video—located in an imagined contemporary Malaysian middle-class living room, a space of a fictive former imperial power—explores the precarious link between fact and fiction, fakery and authenticity by overlaying three believable, authoritative forms: a documentary, a website, and a realistic reconstruction of a contemporary home. It is rife with occidental colonial documents and exotic cultural artifacts—the trophy-evidence of Empire-making. The video parodies television networks and documentaries as researched authoritative forms of information. It begins by posing as a serious, believable work of non-fiction, but becomes increasingly unsettling with its inclusion of fictive events, memories, and histories around the urgent contemporary problems of migration, racism, power relationships, and empire making.
Created for the tenth Lyon Bienniale, in Days of Our Lives: Playing for Dying Mother, Wong’s ongoing negotiation of postcolonial globalization takes aim at French society. Named after an American daytime soap opera that been running for over forty years, Days of Our Lives is a series of six photographs that explore contemporary Europeaness. Here, domestic, everyday scenes drawn from French paintings in the Museum of Fine Arts in Lyon——preparing food, relaxing, reading and playing music, giving charity to the poor, being evicted from home, or going off to War—are reenacted by Muslim Nigerians, Iranians, Turkish, and Buddhist Burmese minorities. 
In Onde Quer Que Voce Esteja, (2011) Accinelli pairs cardboard shipping tubes of varying heights with the phrase, inscribed on the tubes in black ink the text "Onde Quer Que Voce Esteja", wherever you may be translated in English. The words while legible extend to the tubes behind those in front in fragmented lines and shapes, offering a deconstruction of the text. The work pairs with another piece of similar construction that reads "em cada uma das tuas coisas", in each of your things translated in English; it is the overlap of the two which draws out the meaning of the work. Accinelli explores the relationship between objects as metaphors for their own materiality and as a tool for ascribing—in this case —their simultaneously shared functional separation. Onde Quer Que Voce Esteja becomes both an object and a tool for conveying the state of its individual component parts.
Johanna Calle's Abece "K" (2011) is part of a series of drawings she made using the alphabet as her subject matter. Calle completed a drawing for each letter of the alphabet, maintaining its distinct symbol, while repeating it over and again with changes in direction and scale. These drawings were compiled into an artist book called Abece (2011). In Abece "K," the letter "K" is outlined and surrounded by a dense field of "K"'s with variations in size and orientation. Calle demonstrates how a symbol can be reoriented without changing its linguistic meaning.
In this video, a parrot chews on seeds printed with punctuation marks. A radio on the shelf in the background broadcasts the news of an unfolding football match. As the game (and video) progresses, the bird eats all of the remaining punctuation. Punctuation is, in a sense, never spoken, and here provides the visual accompaniment to disembodied action and voice. The parrot, as a silent but potential non-human speaker, here breaks down relentless stream of vocalized reporting.
Days of Our Lives: Reading is from a series of work was created for the 10th Biennale de Lyon by the artist. It marks a new dimension of his ongoing effort to negotiate with the postcolonial reality across the world, with a unique interventional strategy to deal with the French society. Named after a soap opera in U.S. which has been running practically everyday for over 40 years, Days Of Our Lives is a series of six photographs which explores this new Europeaness. These reenacted photographs or tableaux vivant are based on French painting section in the Museum of Fine Arts (Lyon) which depict domestic scenes: preparing food; relaxing, reading and playing music; giving charity to the poor or being evicted from home or going off to war. They are paintings of ordinary people and their everyday activities and problems.
In four-channel video Island, a series of objects such as nail clippers, hairbrush, toothpaste, and house decorations are displayed with close-up shoots. Images are rendered in a highly polished and aesthetic manner, creating poetic visual ﬂows. In front of each object, however, lies a coin, ranging from 2 Yuan, to 1 Pound, to 1 Euro or 1 Dollar, silently revealing the material value of these household supplies. Underneath elegant surface there is a deep sense of critical irony, elaborating by the contradictory nature of the cheap plastic items and their sophistic visual interpretation. Kan poignantly and metaphorically comments on the economic and production structure of today’s global market. The most inﬂuential visual spectacles can be generated by the most basic elements in the everyday.
Sun’s animated film 21 Ke (21 Grams) is based on the 1907 research by the American physician Dr. Duncan MacDougall who claimed the measured weight of the human soul to be twenty-one grams. Sun used this episode—which was not fully recognized by the scientific community—as a point of departure for his depiction of a dystopian world in which the narration of history and notion of time are interrupted. Because each frame was drawn by hand with crayon, it took Sun and his animation studio team a few years to complete this thirty-minute film of a surreal journey through mysterious cities, plagues of mosquitoes, broken statues, cawing ravens, waving flags, and flooded graveyards. Here, an ever-present man in a top hat makes obscure, cryptic references in scenarios that include the national anthem, factories belching soot into the threatening sky, and soaring planes dropping leaflets to earth. Rather than encouraging specific interpretations, 21 Ke is a visual commentary that asks essential questions of human existence: Who we are? What have we done? Where are we heading?
In addition to Yang’s signature drying rack and light bulbs, Office Voodoo includes various office supplies like CDs, paper clips, headphones, a computer mouse, a stamp, a hole puncher, a mobile phone charger. The installation suggests the personal, physical, psychological, and political dimensions of the modern office environment. Though abstracted from their original contexts, these materials are still formally recognizable and function as stand-ins for the places from which they came. 
For his action, Safely Maneuvering across Lin He Road, Lin built a brick wall on one side of a busy main street in the city of Guangzhou. He then took bricks from the sidewalk end of the wall and moved them to the street side, slowly extending the wall into the street. Repeating the same gesture for hours, he leapfrogged the whole wall across the street. His labor transformed a stable wall into a moving one that also disrupted the heavy traffic. This action creates moments of pause in the turbulent flow of urban life that permit rare moments in which one can contemplate the city’s fundamental changes. 
All his artworks utilize the use of body - the artist's own body and that of others. The Result of 1000 Pieces typiﬁes an image of Lin: Lin is standing in an empty hole of a brick wall. By incorporating the brick wall for his work, Lin develops a speciﬁc strategy to question and negotiate with the relationship between people and the changing environments. The body appreciates a broader range of usages, and a brick wall is what is left behind.
The two images include in the A3 collection are from the Japanese House series (2010) through which the artist photographed some of the buildings constructed during the period of Japanese occupation (1895-1945) that remain in Taiwan. Yoneda not only focuses on the original Japanese features of these houses but also the details that have been altered since the end of the occupation. Former Residence of the Daughter of Japanese Prime Minister, Kentaro Suzuki who Accepted the Potsdam Declaration and Full Surrender to the Allied Powers Ending the Second World War, Qingtian Street, I depicts a dusty room with Japanese window frames but no views. Its title offers a biography of the original inhabitants and their historical role before the postwar Chinese Nationalist takeover. The wall behind the counter in Former House of General Wang Shu-ming, the Chief of Staff under Chiang Kai-Shek, Cidong Street, I has been painted a deep red. The detailed title subtly suggests how later, local residents may have altered the home’s original color to make it more “Chinese.” The yet-to-be acknowledged history of the occupation of Taiwian and other East Asian countries by Japan during World War II is subtly disclosed in Yoneda’s images. Instead of presenting monuments, the artist chooses to depict these houses where the domestic lives of local Taiwanese are unfolding. The complexity of history is thus foregrounded by the overlapping of the everyday, the memory and the remains.
In the video installation Tremble, Jiang projected the life-size images of seven naked men and women onto seven individual screens. Each person displays a different facial expression and body position such as reading a book, arms open for a hug, holding a knife, raising a fist to take an oath.  Each gesture reflects some essential social aspect of everyday life: hugging is about caring, taking oath has to do with politics, reading relates to acquiring knowledge, and raising a knife indicates violence. As a result of a hidden vibration machine, the images’ projection screens oscillate vigorously and the contradiction between the shaking screens and the static human figures creates an absurd effect. Through this imposed trembling, Jiang suggests the invisible power that controls modern human behavior. These seemly “out-of-control” actions are often ironically conceived as the most adaptable and mutually-agreed upon tenets of social activity. 
White Corner (2006) is a video installation, projected on two protruding perpendicular walls. On one level the work constitutes a self-portrait of the artist, whose image is projected on both walls, separated by the corner. Yet while facing, they don’t quite confront each other. The projection on the left hand presents Arrechea wielding a machete, while on the right he holds a baseball bat. Together, the artist appears to be unwittingly attacking himself, a poignant comment on blind fear and the failure to recognize the similarity in the “otherness.” 
Silver & Gold combines video, performance, and original costumes into a self-proclaimed “filmformance” that evokes the legendary filmmaker Jack Smith and his tribute to 1940s Dominican movie starlet Maria Montez in a magical and joyfully twisted exploration of race, glamour, sexuality, and the silver screen. Taking Smith’s interest in Hollywood’s obsession with the reproduction of the exotic as a point of departure, Bustamante embodies Miss Montez. Here, video and the body function as both material and subject in her bizarre search for the new bejeweled body part that is at once her curse and oracle.
Tropical Vulture is a cross-generational project which highlights the artistic influences between George Kuchar, a Bay Area legend of independent filmmaking, and Mexican artist Miguel Calderón.  Conversations with a Tropical Vulture is an experimental narrative video, co-directed by both artists, and blends Hollywood glamour and drama with an all-too-real life approach, which creates and inspires a counterpoint of unattainable desire against unbearable actuality. The video, shot on location in Acapulco, utilizes a "lo-fi" aesthetic and playful use of non-professional actors.
Nuevo Dragon City is a reenactment of a historical event from 1927 in which six Chinese were either trapped or voluntarily hid themselves inside a building in northern Mexico. Working with this unsettled mystery, De La Torre’s video inquires into the historical and continuing tensions between Chinese and Mexicans. As such, Nuevo Dragon City depicts a symbolic act of self-entrapment in which six untrained actors of Chinese descent silently blockade themselves inside in an empty Tijuana storefront. As they close off the outside world, their surroundings and actions become a powerful commentary on the social reality of immigrants.
I Am Cuba—“Soy Cuba” in Spanish; “Ya Kuba” in Russian—is a Soviet/Cuban film produced in 1964 by director Mikhail Kalatozov at Mosfilm. The movie was not well received by the Russian or Cuban public and was almost completely forgotten until its rediscovery thirty years later by American filmmakers. The movie’s acrobatic tracking shots and idiosyncratic mise-en-scène prompted Hollywood directors like Martin Scorsese to campaign to restore the movie in the early 1990s. In 2006, Dulzaides traveled to Cuba to remake a small part of the film which became Scene I Am Cuba, a two-fold narrative in which one story line is based on a real event, and the other is the process of turning evidence into the theatrical. 
Hershman Leeson’s documentary, Women Art Revolution (W.A.R.) draws from hundreds of hours of intimate interviews with her contemporaries—visionary artists, historians, curators and critics—who recount their fight to break down the barriers facing women both in the art world and society at large. The film features an original score by Carrie Brownstein, formerly of the band Sleater-Kinney.
Commissioned by the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art and riffing on the “I Want You” army recruitment campaigns of the 1930s and 1940s, Labat asked Bay Area residents to interpret the slogan and make their own demands of the public in a series of live performance auditions. Given one minute to seize the voice of authority, contestants were asked to be the finger-pointing Uncle Sam, and their performances—as on the TV program American Idol—were voted on by a live audience. Five winners were chosen and their image and slogans appeared on posters throughout San Francisco to coincide with the presidential elections. A video of all auditions premiered at SFMOMA on election night.
Leonardogillesfleur describe Action 3:02 as their “first New York blizzard storm at about 5am. The photographic moment of a photo album which could have been taken by anybody in any familiar situation with the intention to immortalize that moment.”
Of Action 26:15 leonardogillesfleur notes: “There is almost an ice-cream store in every corner ofBuenos Aires. The family [in the video] is having an ice-cream in the hot summer afternoon. Small tics appear on people’s faces from a fly or the attempt to hold still while the ice-cream top melts or drops off its sugar-cone.”
Leonardogillesfleur describes Myself as a Fountain: “The couple kissing in the park. Pedestrian pass by with boom box, fire truck sirens and baseball-bat sounds suggest they are in New York. But the kiss is not accomplished and saliva drips from the lover’s open mouth like a fountain of unfulfilled desire.” 
Choke documents the artist filming a wrestler “choking out” his teammate until he is unconscious. This closed circuit of dominance and submission between two powerful men, is echoed by the closed circuit of the video through which the viewer takes on the role of voyeur. The artist’s presence in the piece not only calls attention to its staging, but inverts the traditional power dynamic of the “male gaze” and gender roles.    
Conceived as a large-scale mural-like projection, Color of History, Sweating Rocks is a neo-futuristic, hybrid film that combines cinematic language, collage, animation, and inventive forms to highlight the plight of the peoples of the Sahara—and refugees in general—who have been displaced by oil-mining. 
Canned Laughter was Okón’s response to an invitation from Ciudad Juárez that asked artists to create works based on their experience in the city. Okón focuses on Ciudad Juárez as a site for many “maquiladoras”—factories— and on its role within the global context. Canned Laughter is a detailed construction of Bergson, a fictitious factory that produces canned laughter for sitcoms. For it, dozens of ex-maquiladora workers were hired both as part of the research process (maquiladoras are highly secretive and it is very hard to know what happens inside) and as actors. Canned Laughter alludes to mechanized processes and to slavery in the age of globalization as well as to the impossibility to translate and reproduce true emotions though technological means.
Shot in the streets of Tokyo, Collapse, is a meditation on the passing of time and on the complicated way in which we are smashed between the past and the future. The video follows a moped carrying a woman holding a very large mirror. The mirror is large enough that she can’t see what lies ahead, she can only see what has already come as reflections in the mirror. The video is flipped so that everything in the mirror is correct and everything else is reversed.
For several years now, artists Pauline Boudry and Renate Lorenz have been conducting research on the heritage of cultural and gender studies, concentrating primarily on gender discourses and the notion of queer. They are interested in historical figures who were marginalized because they incarnated a sexual “perversion” and who went on stage to seek some recognition in their time. These stigmatized characters are made visible once again by Boudry and Lorenz who revisit archives as a base for their films, installations and texts. These works demonstrate how visibility (since the beginning of the modern period) of these bodies allows for a claim to power, a certain glamour, and a form of recognition. Nevertheless it also contributes to making these bodies pathological or criminal, to devalue them. Their work ponders on the quasi-simultaneity of the invention of sexual perversions and photography as well as they link to colonial economy at the end of the 19th and the beginning of the 20th.  Thus Boudry and Lorenz weave links between different epochs as if to readdress the notion of “normality”. Playing with the conventions of cross-dressing and fetishization, the exhibition of these characters is doubled up with a baroque mise en scène. Totally assuming theatricality in their work, Pauline Boudry and Renate Lorenz's films create their own mise en scène: the set up of the décor, rehearsals, directions given to the actors off-screen, are integrated into the non-linear narrative and allow the spectator to see a film in the process of being made. These films are also very theatrical in nature since the performative aspect is so essential, both in the way scenes are often linked to spectacle, dance or music, but also from a technical point of view since the scenes are often only shot once. 
Jay Chung and Q Takedi Maeda remake a clip from the 1970s they found on the internet, and without really changing this archive material, displace it by imitating the staging and the acting with scrupulous precision. The slightest details are reproduced identically with great minutiae. The facial expressions are absurd, the prim attitude makes no sense. The blasé air of the actors (the artists themselves) creates a comic and  ridiculous shift. This work is typical of Chung and Maeda's artistic strategy in which the hoax is a pretext for  rereading and although the artists are staging themselves, they are also intent on becoming absent. In this literal video remake, the artists question the modes of diffusion of images, copying, artistic territory, legitimacy and paternity. Their practice is characterized by performance, which often involves weighty unsettling humor. Concerned by popular and digital culture, art speculation and self-criticism they play with their presence and retreat, creating some emptiness which is conducive to reflexion. They are known for their definition of new artistic territories and the chosen format is always extremely varied. There is a certain anthropological aspect to their approach, a precise gaze, attentive as they are to the context in which their new work articulates itself. 
Forensic Poster was first realized in 2006 and reactivated in 2011; its making consisted of the artist visiting the London School of Criminology and corresponding with the interim director there in order to reproduce a poster by memory. This piece of work is symptomatic of Cooter's projects which are often arduous enterprises littered with pitfalls, since they imply prospecting and collaborating with third parties whose will determine the success of the project. Forensic Poster consists of a letter, emails and a gouache which translates the artist's attempt to recreate a poster glimpsed at in one of the study halls of the London Police Department of Forensic Medicine. Against a blood red background, the drawing simulates a manuscript note that has been pinned to the wall with a giant nail which carries the inscription: “Nail em”. At the bottom of the image, the injunction is completed by “With Good Forensics”. The dry formal rendering reinforces the smooth and aggressive message so that the spectator grasps that it caught the artist's full attention. The rationale for the presence of the correspondence as part of the work isn't so not much to allow the confrontation between his memory and the original, but to show his dialogue with London Forensics Police.Mike Cooter's  practice interrogates the place of the artist in society and his implication in reality, indeed in most of his projects he works with third parties et integrates them into the artistic process.
Lydia Gifford composes her work between pictorial expression and its inscription within an exhibition space. This particular approach implies the performative aspect of her in situ painting. The artist takes the entire environment into consideration from the canvas to the exhibition walls. Time and attention are required to allow the subtleties of the work to reveal themselves in all their complexities in order to find a focal distance which is appropriate to experience the composition. A white wall, a vibrant canvas, disparate elements as  punctuation, and the pictorial gesture that continue on the wall on which it becomes inscribed in an echo with the canvas. She explains that: “There is a subtle balance between impulse and action. Actions leave traces, painting always initially carries the mark of the body, of an explosive gesture.” Intimate and played out in the exhibition space, the artist's work endangers its own apparatus on the occasion of every presentation and thus renews the viewpoints in a perpetual dialogue between the work, the place and the audience. Warder is on the limit of achievement and creates a tension with the exhibition space that fundamentally participates in its evolution. The artist proposes an intimate sensory experience by drawing attention to the vibratile nature of the context and the marking of her gesture. She states that in her work: “Painting allows me to transpose boundaries”. In the painting tradition that Gifford responds to Turner's works are haunted by fog which diffuses light: she brings this up to date with her incisive question of defining a territory to cultivate. Her work alludes to landscape, questions the appearing of a work of art and its existence, the trace of its emergence, the vitality of the initial thrust. 
  
The video I am protesting against myself presents a puppet in a garbage can citing numerous reasons why one should protest against it. Cyprian Mureşan utilizes the comic effects typical of popular culture and the media. Progressively during the video, one appropriates the reasons for this characters discontent. This work has particular resonance at the moment in the midst of globalization and Capitalist excesses, since indignant voices are rising. The script was written in collaboration with Gianina Carbunariu, a contemporary Romanian author.
Ciprian Mureşan asked a group of protagonists to wear a monk's robe and copy a certain number of artworks and texts from exhibition catalogues. Here it is no longer the Bible that is reproduced but works by Malevich, Mondrian, Beuys, Duchamp. These artists represent a certain form of utopia in art and are themselves quasi-mythical figures. The fact that they are copying these works from a catalogue reproducing works by Elaine Sturtevant who in turn has appropriated work by other artists (mostly works made by men) creates an even greater distancing in the actions of these copying monks.The authenticity of the artist's gesture defended by Modernism is rejected and recalls the status of the artist during the Communist era. This also considers this post-Communist era in which artists easily enter the economic system of the art market in today's globalized world and proposes an ironic comment on the diffusion of images in this internet age. Rather like in the work by Mladen Stilinovic, this is acts as an interrogation on the loss of meaning of certain icons in Western art, a questioning of the negative and positive consequences of a meticulous repetition of the past.
For Bettina Poutsttchi’s large-format, site-specific photographic work Echo (2009–10), the four exterior walls of the Temporäre Kunsthalle Berlin were covered with a digitally edited collage of archival images of the glass-and-steel facade of the Palast der Republik (Palace of the Republic), which had once been located nearby. That milestone of late East European modernism was completed in 1976. It served as the seat for the Volkskammer—the parliament of the German Democratic Republic (GDR). After the fall of the Berlin Wall, the building lost its political purpose and was used for cultural initiatives. After a long political discussion, the building was demolished in 2009 to make room for the reconstruction of Berlin’s eighteenth-century Stadtschloss (City castle). With the aid of photography, Bettina Pousttchi rebuilt the Palace of the Republic, the historically important building in the immediate vicinity of the demolition site, thus raising questions of the eternal cycle of catastrophe, destruction, and reconstruction in Berlin.  Echo is a photographic work of an altered reality that is implemented in public space. The series of twenty-four color photographs was taken during the six-month presentation of Echo, offering a diverse portrait of this installation in the middle of the iconic buildings that surround it. With Echo, the artist altered the physical reality of the Berlin Schlossplatz through photographic means. By photographing it, she achieves another reality that crosses between architecture, sculpture, and photography in a very exciting way. A selection of the Echo photos were shown in her solo show at the Kunsthalle Basel in 2011. The proposal is to purchase a pair of photos showing the building at different times of the year and looking in different directions evoking different aspects of temporality and politics through the seasons and architecture.  
There was a tragedy in Sialkot, Punjab, in August 2010, when two adolescents were murdered by vigilantes who were apparently in connivance with the police. Struck by this blunder revealing police corruption, the started a series of paintings on paper, You who are my love and my life’s enemy too, in which he expressed his reaction to this murder. At first glance the work appears to be a splash of blood like the one in this killing, but, close up, the composition reveals itself as meticulous floral motifs typical of the art of miniature painting which the artist teaches. This work has echoes in another piece which was presented at the 10th Biennale of Sharjah, Blessing upon the land of my love, in which he develops an installation in a similar modus operandi, this time referring to a suicide bombing that took place in the market the artist goes to. These distinctive works confront us with the same feeling the artist had confronted with such violence, here Imran Qureshi poetically attempts to find a way to expiate these violent deaths and suggest their impacts on the political and social situation in Pakistan. 
These photographs are installation shots of the exhibition De A à B, de B à P at Bielefelder Kunstverein (13 November 2010-30 January 2011). There, Clément Rodzielski had chosen to exhibit the series called Miroirs noirs (Black Mirrors, black and white abstract screen prints) which is emblematic of his work. The piece of painted wood was not shown to the public; it moves and invests the space enigmatically. On the other hand, the painting which dialogues with the works on the wall and serves as a yardstick in space has now disappeared. It only exists in and for the photographic images that keep a trace of its brief existence. The small painting had been entrusted to the exhibition photographer who was in charge of placing the work in the space while taking the pictures. The four photographs were presented at Confort Moderne (Poitiers) for the second incarnation of the exhibition (18 March-8 May, 2011). In this work, Clément Rodzielski considers the exhibition-making process itself and includes the movement of artworks and of the exhibition space from Bielefeld to Poitiers. Protocols for the fabrication, the hang and the documentation constructs a production system which has been imagined for both exhibitions. The artist confronts the documentary qualities of the work produced this way (real exhibition shots/ the fictional intrusion of a “supplementary” object ; a black and white document which flattens the colored painting) choosing an imposing format, worthy of a photographic tableau : the whole installation thus recreates a  space in which we projects ourselves as one recalls that the artist's practice is largely linked to in situ projects.
In Gradation, nine raspberries lined up on a lichen-dotted rock progress from left to right, dark to light, plump to unripe. Through this curatorial act of collection and arrangement, Campbell alchemizes discrete instances of color into a single phenomenon, fabricating a gradient out of found pieces. Viewed alone, each berry would be unremarkable. But when placed in Campbell’s ordered context, keen details emerge: the slightest variations in color and scale suddenly become perceptible. 
Trisha Donnelly work moves through different media, often translating between or pushing at their boundaries. Allof the materials that form the presentation and composition of the work of art are included in this play, from theuse of text for an artwork's title to the show's press release. With these material strategies, Donnelly touches onideas of time, presence, and the imagination.
The staged images were captured against the backdrop of the city’s empty streets at sundown during the holy month of Ramadan. During the time, the Muslims fast and retreat indoor, leaving the city in an eerily atmosphere. Through portraying ordinary citizens from religious minorities, the photographs reclaim the occupation of public space. The often- domestic gestures are brought forward and presented in the streets. In Karachi Series I (Chandra Acharya), a middle- aged woman is sitting in front of a dressing table plaiting her hair. The royal-blue sari revealed her identity. While in Karachi Series I (Ken DeSouza), the man in white shirt is polishing his shoes without furthering revealing his identity. Presented in light boxes, their backlit luminosity exaggerates the absurdity and strangeness of these images. By situating them in the specific time and locations, Abidi tests the political potentials of these everyday gestures.
The three monkeys in Don’t See, Don’t Hear, Don’t Speak are a recurring motif in Gupta’s work and refer to the Japanese pictorial maxim of the “three wise monkeys” in which Mizaru covers his eyes to “see no evil,” Kikazaru covers his ears to “hear no evil,” and Iwazaru covers his mouth to “speak no evil.” For the various performative and photographic works that continue this investigation and critique of the political environment, Gupta stages children and adults holding their own or each other’s eyes, mouths and ears. These images suggest that seemingly mobilized societies can actually produce more fear and myths, and that no real freedom is ensured. Instead of facilitating the free circulation of ideas, “advanced” political and technological systems often generate more cultural clichés, wars, and terror.
Intermission (Halloween Iraq IV) is a large print that depicts U.S. soldiers in Iraq celebrating Halloween. They ride donkeys—apparently playing polo—while wearing masks that simultaneously familiarize the soldiers, through the recognition of a common holiday, and distance them, through the obscuring of their faces. Its means of reproduction—a woodblock print—further amplifies the distance between the event and its presentation, as well as the engagement of the artists. 
The Exploitation of the Dead cycle is composed of a very large number of elements which the artist reorganizes differently every time. The installation is presented like a “parade of objects”, with images whose historical role has been suspended or their meaning has changed. The references have become lost, through repetition the works have become banal. One can find copies of Suprematist or Social Realist paintings, collages, photographs of political meetings, cemeteries or other memorials. We are confronted with the obsolescence of signs. Colors like red and black have also lost their meaning. Exploitation of the Dead concerns today's religious or ideological ideas which are only extensions of religions and ideologies of the past and definitively dead. Mladen Stilinovic insists that: “If death has to be exploited, this is a violent act and we need to weigh up the consequences.” Collective rituals are central since they evoke a certain collective emotion which can't quite be attained through signs and colors. This work is a way to think about painting but also the modalities of its exhibition. There is also this question of the copy. Why and how do we copy things? What do we learn through repetition ? About loss of integrity ? 
Montemozolo writes of the work: “Fireflies is the result of a sudden event—and its transformation/translation into an art work—that erupts within a life, altering its flow, suspending it, creating a momentary intensity and deviation of the flow, channeling it somewhere unexpected. This unforeseen deviation is dissected in terms of affects in the time frame of 5 minutes. The affects that emerge in the piece are characterized by a sense of movement between pain and hope, and a work of association between cancer and expectancy. The concept of resistance and fireflies is taken from [Georges] Didi-Huberman's work on the political relevance of the survival of fireflies as a metaphor for the contemporary importance of an intermittent resistance opposed to an inoperable, redemptive, absolute one.” 
Charles Avery has been constructing a narrative in his work since 2004. Between fantasy and reality, The Islanders is a very particular universe he has created in which to gather his disparate ideas. His practice primarily involves drawing, sculptures, texts and installations which participate in the epic and dreamlike narrative whole in the course of making. “I discovered a way to create a place where I could lay out and rationalize according to the space rather than to logic. This place enables me to affirm relations between the different elements. Thus whatever I make or write, whatever the context in which the work operates, its ultimate and absolute meaning remains linked to The Island”.Charles Avery has no interest in placing his work within the history of art, instead he is intent on constructing a autonomous environment, purposely distancing the public. “The spectator is a tourist, a traveler, a writer, a missionary, an itinerant, a bounty hunter, a pioneer, in this country.” Amongst Avery's most renowned drawings with extremely composed figurative scenes, there are geographical maps that situate The Island in relation to a fictional archipelago Triangland. Untitled (Map) is one of the pieces that enables the viewer to comprehend the context of this archipelago as well as discover the topography of his account.   
Gabriel Kuri has created a series of works in which he juxtaposes perennial and ephemeral materials. Untitled (Ticket Roll) belongs to this group of sculptures and consists of three smooth ornate marble elements and a roll of public transport tickets. The artist poetically associates finesse and fragility as in a number of these works. Here the line of the ticket roll, partly unraveled, is held down by the balancing marble elements thus creating an interdependence between elements de different natures. Gabriel Kuri's sculptural work involves a narrative through various elements from daily life resulting from specific areas of our contemporary social structures : tickets, banknotes, bills, credit cards, toiletry samples from hotels...   
This series of photographs is part of the body of work Allora & Calzadilla made regarding the situation in Vieques, an island off the mainland of Puerto Rico used for the 60 years by the U.S Military and NATO forces to practice military bombing exercises. In 2000, they began a collaboration with the local activists to make the campaign more visible. Having added cast rubber reliefs of their slogans and designs to the soles of their shoes, the activists stamped their protest on the reclaimed land. By slightly manipulating everyday objects to become communication tools, Allora & Calzadilla had created “mobile print-making machines” (Yates McKee, October 133, Summer 2010). They then photographed the ephemeral aftermath of these mark-making actions. Like graffitied walls, the details of these impressions on sandy grounds are landscapes of dissent, willing the transition of propriety back to the inhabitants. In Land Mark #12, numerous footsteps with long statements stamp their resentment in different confused orientations. Such a beach scene might at first misleadingly be associated with a playful holiday snap. The fragility, uncertainty and relentlessness of this struggle is poetically summarized in this close-up of meaningful site-specific expression. The artists wrote: “How is land differentiated from other land by the way it is marked? Who decides what is worth preserving and what should be destroyed? What are the strategies for reclaiming marked land? How does one articulate an ethics and politics of land use?” (in Land Mark, de Tokyo, Paris, 2006).  
This series of photographs is part of the body of work Allora & Calzadilla made regarding the situation in Vieques, an island off the mainland of Puerto Rico used for the 60 years by the U.S Military and NATO forces to practice military bombing exercises. In 2000, they began a collaboration with the local activists to make the campaign more visible. Having added cast rubber reliefs of their slogans and designs to the soles of their shoes, the activists stamped their protest on the reclaimed land. By slightly manipulating everyday objects to become communication tools, Allora & Calzadilla had created “mobile print-making machines” (Yates McKee, October 133, Summer 2010). They then photographed the ephemeral aftermath of these mark-making actions. Like graffitied walls, the details of these impressions on sandy grounds are landscapes of dissent, willing the transition of propriety back to the inhabitants. In Land Mark #10, numerous footsteps with long statements stamp their resentment in different confused orientations. Such a beach scene might at first misleadingly be associated with a playful holiday snap. The fragility, uncertainty and relentlessness of this struggle is poetically summarized in this close-up of meaningful site-specific expression. The artists wrote: “How is land differentiated from other land by the way it is marked? Who decides what is worth preserving and what should be destroyed? What are the strategies for reclaiming marked land? How does one articulate an ethics and politics of land use?” (in Land Mark, de Tokyo, Paris, 2006).
This installation combines the display of real objects with the deceptively painterly  amalgamation of their content as the subject of a photograph. Here Allora & Calzadilla condemn the worldwide threat of violence caused by the high desirability of oil and water. Caught in the light, the patterning of the two liquids in the print creates attractive rainbow-like pools, a distanced comment on pollution. This trace on the ground is an aestheticized piece of evidence of a real heavily loaded problem for nature and society. The artist's critical stance is poetically and precisely rendered to encourage debate about politics, power and ecology through art. Pure, life-enhancing natural resources are presented as potentially explosive substances in metal or plastic containers. Such absurdity is made visible in the direct dialogue of cause and effect in this presentation which is then amplified by the title, The Nature of Conflict, which adds to the imagination of extended dangerousness. Allora & Calzadilla have created a meaningful and at the same time subtle visual formula for the summary of their alarmed analysis of a current global issue.  
Produced on the occasion of an exhibition at ARTIUM of Alava, Basque Centre-Museum of Contemporary Art, this deck of cards is a selection of images from Carlos Amorales's Liquid Archive. and abstract silhouetted motifs, in a black and white palette, are combined to create a world lodged between fantasy and reality typical of the tarot game. Airplanes, letters, naked women, Osama Bin Laden, Che Guevara, mythological figures, skulls, wrestlers' masks are some of the visuals that populate this printed object. It was distributed to fortune-tellers for their interpretation of the future. It is also presented framed and hung in a grid or as an artist's book. Jennifer Allen writes in artforum (Summer 2005): “Surfaces can serve blindness and vision: images, decoration and destiny. While linking clairvoyants, psychologists, and art critics as interpreters, Amorales also levels the hierarchy between artists, whose creations are generally treated as singular, and actors and musicians, who often interpret works that have already been produced or performed by others. In the era of postproduction – where images tend to be ready-made – the artist is simply a point of distribution, not the origin of images.”An edition exists in the collection of the Museum of Modern Art, New York.
This series of photographs reflects Marcelo Cidade's incessant walks or drifting through the city and his chance encounters with a certain street poetry like the Surrealists or Situationists before him. He captures incongruities or everyday simplicity and highlights their suggestive power. The composition and framing of these interventions specially emphasizes the object of interest and the humor of the context. Signs, architecture, styles, color schemes, offer the viewer a sense of place while remaining potentially universal. Sculptural happenings like this one – a telephone cabin or some such structure entirely covered in silver tape – point to the city's perpetual mutations. The title conveys uselessness, failure, tension, in between states but also empowerment. According to the artist, this force is arrived at through persistent accumulation of noticed sensualities and a keen nearly amorous eye on one's environment.
Marcelo Cidade interrogates the city, architecture and urban planning. This architectonic drawing proposes modular possibilities, adaptable variations based on the form of the concrete block (a material which is often actually integrated in his practice). The “re-definition” announced in the title is in construction, in process, under development, in flux. The investigation appears incomplete, but potentially infinite, therefore full of potential. This work is like a claim for the competence of artists to contribute to new visions for society, like a hymn to their capacity for imagination within a larger debate. Cidade offers abstract viewpoints on real societal questions to do with housing and propriety development while pointing to an urgent need for revisiting Brazilian history of Modernist architecture and Neoconcretism.
This series of photographs reflects Marcelo Cidade's incessant walks or drifting through the city and his chance encounters with a certain street poetry like the Surrealists or Situationists before him. He captures incongruities or everyday simplicity and highlights their suggestive power. The composition and framing of these interventions specially emphasizes the object of interest and the humor of the context. Sculptural happenings like this one – an apparently defunct white canopy along an equally white wall – point to the city's perpetual mutations. The composition is a formal play of light and shadow, grays and whites with specs of red and green or moulding dribbles, horizontal, vertical and transversal lines. The title conveys uselessness, failure, tension, in between states but also empowerment. According to the artist, this force is arrived at through persistent accumulation of noticed sensualities and a keen nearly amorous eye on one's environment.
This photograph of Martin Creed himself was used as the invitation card for a fundraising auction of works on paper at Christie's South Kensington in support of Camden Arts Centre's first year in a refurbished building in 2005. His broad smile, on the verge of laughter, encourages reciprocity on behalf of the onlooker. This could be said to be a typical tactic in Creed's work as it is so infused with humor and irony. To him, art is like a game, or certainly very much a part of banal reality. Within the genre of self-portraits, this subverts the usual tradition of images of the artist as creator. Creed often jokes or questions whether the artwork (or in this case the persona of the artist) has any value or exists. Standing in front of a very British brick wall which likely carries art historical connections and puns, Creed seems to mock or certainly stand amazed at his own commercial success. In 2001, he won the Turner Prize with his controversial Work No. 227. The Lights Going on and off. “I want to make things. I'm not sure why, but I think it's got something to do with other people. I think I want to try to communicate with other people, because I want to say 'hullo', because I want to express myself, and because I want to be loved".
The types of objects Feldmann is interested in collecting into serial photographic grids or artist's books are often also found in three dimensional installations. Verging on a form of fetichism, his shoe collections are a case in point and indeed, for some exhibitions, he even asked gallery employees for their shoes. Against authorship and the commodification of art, he never gives titles or dates to his works which have infinite edition possibilities. The mode of display is paired down to the simplest form of a plain square plinth that nevertheless conveys artistry. The presentation contributes to the re-orientation and re-contextualization of these assembled found objects taken from everyday life. This work, like hat with photo and teapot with shadow also in the collection, could be imagined as a form suggestive of portraiture. Secondary autobiographical components are sometimes included: a set of eight black-and-white photographs of shoes, Ursula + Hans-Peter, stands for the artist and his wife with whom he worked in a gift store when he left the art world in the 1980s. The positioning of this female pair of shoes is clearly deliberate and meaningful as is the literal and playful mimetic association of snakeskin and quail's eggs patterning.
The types of objects Feldmann is interested in collecting into serial photographic grids or artist's books are often also found in three dimensional installations. Hats and photographs are regularly part of his appropriations and arrangements. He famously made numerous trips to England in search of old photographs when he was an antique dealer, and then worked in a gift store with his wife when he left the art world in the 1980s. Against authorship and the commodification of art, he never gives titles or dates to his works which have infinite edition possibilities. The mode of display is paired down to the simplest form of a plain square plinth that nevertheless conveys artistry. The presentation contributes to the re-orientation and re-contextualization of these assembled found objects taken from everyday life. Borsalino-type felt hats carry associations with artists such as Marcel Duchamp and Joseph Beuys therefore this work, like pair of shoes and teapot with shadow also in the collection, could be imagined as a form suggestive of portraiture.
The types of objects Feldmann is interested in collecting into serial photographic grids or artist's books are often also found in three dimensional installations. Against authorship and the commodification of art, he never gives titles or dates to his works which have infinite edition possibilities. This mise en scène of found kitchenware also exists with a rounder and flatter plain modern white porcelain teapot.The mode of display is paired down to the simplest form of a plain square plinth that nevertheless conveys artistry, as does the addition of the cut piece of cardboard signifying a shadow. This recalls his large scale actual Shadow Play for the Venice Biennale in 2009. Feldmann has described his memories of working as a waiter and the lasting impression of the chairs propped up on the tables at the end of day and left the art world in the 1980s to work in a gift store with his wife. work, like hat with photoand pair of shoes also in the collection, is loaded with art historical references and irreverence through a simple assembly of an object and a classic artistic trick.
Presumably this painting, as others by Madani, takes its source from either one of the highly controversial photographs taken by American soldiers of their tortured prisoners in Abu Ghraib in 2006 or some such imagery of human degradation (from whatever quarter) during the War of Terror widely diffused in the media. Madani chooses hard-hitting contemporary topics, often relating to the Middle East, to apply her distinctive expressionist style to. Garish colors, sketchy outlines and broad brushstrokes allow for a violently satirical depiction of society, politics and war. The viewer is trapped in the position of the voyeur glaring at these scenes through the comfortable prism of a computer screen or a magazine and made to slow down and consider these terrifying visuals for more than an instant, encouraged by the different temporal status offered by a painting. The disturbing clown-like grin appearing on the cagoule defies any rapid assumptions and confuses the entire scene to emphasize the sheer absurdity of the situation. Arms outstretched, the figure kneeling in a pool of blood sinks into amorphous insignificance as the stripes covering his body make him blend into his surroundings. He literally becomes a wall painting as the title suggests. Criticizing erasure as well as over-exposure, Madani is definitely one to use painting as a weapon of mass denunciation. 
This score is a graphic record of the detailed choreography of one of Anthony McCall's Landscape for Fire performances. These took place between 1972-74 in the UK at the Museum of Modern Art in Oxford, Colchester School of Art, in Reading and in North Weald as well as in Sweden at Fylkingen Society of Contemporary Music and Arts, Stockholm, and in the USA at the William Patterson University, Wayne, New Jersey. Many of these events were photographed by David Kilburn and Carolee Schneemann, only one in 1972 was filmed. Dressed entirely in white, the artist and his collaborators lit braziers outdoors at nightfall, to the sound of foghorns. According to printed documentation, Subcycle 10 lasted 144 minutes between 4.42pm-7.06pm. If one refers to another drawing dated March 1973 in the Getty Research Institute, the numbering from 0-148 are the minutes and the columns with the numbers “12, 8, 4” indicate  the time sequence. The geometric precision of these diagrams documents McCall's specifically imagined spatial plan of interaction with unpredictable elements of fire, air and environmental conditions to create a near ritualistic event harking back to age-old traditions. The grid system formalizes the pacing or staging of this earthwork. McCall had begun his body of works drawing with light with the 'Fire Event' series of performances in his studio in London in 1971.
The film Line Describing a Cone was made in 1973 and it was projected for the first time at Fylkingen (Stockholm) on 30 August of the same year. This piece, which was initially screened in independent film contexts, it soon began to be shown at art museums and ended up becoming one of the key works of the artistic movement that opened up the visual arts towards cinema. With a duration of 30 minutes, the film shows the creation of a white curve being projected onto an empty space. A thin mist is introduced into the projection area, therefore the viewer can progressively see (more than a circle reflected on the wall) a large cone of light which simultaneously becomes a light sculpture into which he is invited to circulate. By allowing the viewer to immerse himself in it, and play with this strange substance, Line Describing a Cone becomes not only something made to be seen, but also something to be experienced since the viewer is absorbed into the scene and becomes part of the action. In this way, McCall recreates an inversion: by placing the public facing the projector, he reveals the entire process of kinematics and, at the same time, he destroys any possibility of illusionism, in order to create another, that of magic, poetry and wonder.
“A man wanders near the windows of a gallery, situated adjacent to the street. He occasionally gazes through windows into the gallery but never enters.” Passersby are numerous since these windows are by a tram stop on a busy street. It is surprising to note how few of them take any notice of this man peering repeatedly through the slightly tinted glass into an empty meeting room with no distinctive signs to be seen. It turns out this was a performance at the Kunsthaus in Graz. A annunciating drawing with the same title was shown in Ondák's solo show More Silent Than Even at gb agency in Paris the same year; this show also included an invisible eavesdropping device. The uncomfortable connotations of surveillance, whether visual or aural, in everyday situations or art galleries, were in focus. The camera shots following this strange act of insistent staring and squinting vary from different perspectives outdoors or from inside the space looking at him, with consequent shifts in soundscapes. In The Stray Man's exercise in curiosity, nothing happens. This action in the public sphere could appear useless. But this extended, seemingly trivial, gesture is a contemporary poetic take of the act of looking, on its meaning today, its possibilities and difficulties applicable to the art world as much as to human and socio-political permissiveness or constraints at large.
As the caption purposely admits, these drawings were made by friends of Ondák's at home in Slovakia asked to interpret places he has journeyed to. The description of the blond artist wearing the same outfit and bag in places of transit like airports, stations or streets are faithful in straightforward (verging on naïve) styles. His own skill as artist is displaced and delegated to others with no particular gift in draftsmanship. Taking the role of a commissioner recurs regularly in Ondák's work, other examples include Common Trip (2000) constituted with 128 elements, I'm Just Acting in It (2007) with 24 drawings, for instance. These eight drawings were placed in variegated simple home decoration frames to create a sort of storyboard for the artist's life. For political, personal or economic reasons, not everyone has similar possibilities for mobility. Ondák's act of sharing his memories expands the potential impact of art for a different public, made actors on these occasions. The interpretations give different viewpoints but maintain a certain continuity, as if it is the artist's travelogue once removed. The repetitive descriptions of a walking man have interesting parallels with Francis Alys's two-dimensional work.  
This work needs to be considered in relation to one of his performances during which people were made to queue in front of the Kunsthalle of Frankfurt in 2003 (Tate Collection). In this instance Ondak collected images of people queuing in front of all sorts of buildings in various newspapers. He then inserted these in a Slovakian newspaper without trying to give any coherence with the information in the text on the same page. The result is a fictional space with the potential for the invention of different scenarios. The theme of people queuing encourages the consideration of the relation between interior and exterior but also of exclusion. It can also be a reference to deprivation during periods of war or economic depression. In the manner of works by Felix Gonzales-Torres, the audience can take a copy of the newspaper which therefore leaves the exhibition space. The fact that the message or the artwork circulates is an integral part of the artistic gesture. People lining up behind one another also formally becomes a living sculpture. The refusal to allow the object to be recouped by the flux of liberal economy echoes the refusal of any monumentality which was used so often by authoritarian regimes. 
"To me, art equals responsibility".  That is probably why Alain Séchas creates works according to the human scale, immediately evoking the human body. But rather than using the human figure, he chose that of the cat: a round-eyed feline which never smiles. " Doing cats becomes like a trap, so that we identify a lot with it (...) and all the imagery of the cat reappears: the Egyptian cat, comics, caricature etc".Chosen as our anthropological equivalent, the cat plays various characters, often provocative, and becomes the intermediary between the artist and the viewer. More than a mere sculpture, he is a drawing with volume, a motif which endlessly changes: " I have always said that my work was about drawing; a small drawing is as important as a large sculpture and its making is as difficult for me. » Falsely naive, the work of Alain Séchas stands out and opens our eyes, like his cat: « Forcing the viewer to see is to me the very definition of art », he says. With no complacency whatsoever.Peace and Love shows a family with children who embody some of the typical calamities of society written on their T-shirt: "murder", "suicide", "gore" thus criticising the values of the generation of May 1968.  
Kovanda's street interventions are always documented according to the same format as the actions: a piece of A4 paper, a typewritten text giving a precise location and date, and a photograph. Contrarily to the actions, he took the photographs himself. One of the rules he stuck to in his artistic practice was to always use material at his disposal, a real economy of means. Since he worked in the Prague National Gallery store between 1977 and 1995, he was able to use left-over art handling materials like string, paper, wooden wedges and so forth. Most interventions tended to be small in scale and ephemeral, with no particular audience since they occurred outside the art gallery space (certainly until the late 1990s). The white piles on two parallel bridges are bound to disappear. This poetic installation in urban settings is given two different perspectives, one photograph being a close-up. Kovanda states that: “They were often white... Maybe it had something to do with that out of place quality I was talking about. On the street, for example, the color white seems rather artificial. It provides a certain contrast.” 
Kovanda's street interventions are always documented according to the same format as the actions: a piece of A4 paper, a typewritten text giving a precise location and date, and a photograph. Contrarily to the actions, he took the photographs himself. One of the rules he stuck to in his artistic practice was to always use material at his disposal, a real economy of means. Since he worked in the Prague National Gallery store between 1977 and 1995, he was able to use left-over art handling materials like string, paper, wooden wedges and so forth. Most interventions tended to be small in scale and ephemeral, with no particular audience since they occurred outside the art gallery space (certainly until the late 1990s). This was perhaps a ironic counter-commentary on monumental Minimalist installations and a consequence of the context of an Eastern European country during the Soviet period. In this document, wooden wedges are inserted in the interstices of stone pavings, as if standing guard. Stuck in an ominous corner, they create stark shadows on the ground. 
Kovanda's street interventions are always documented according to the same format as the actions: a piece of A4 paper, a typewritten text giving a precise location and date, and a photograph. Contrarily to the actions, he took the photographs himself. One of the rules he stuck to in his artistic practice was to always use material at his disposal, a real economy of means. Since he worked in the Prague National Gallery store between 1977 and 1995, he was able to use left-over art handling materials like string, paper, wooden wedges and so forth. Most interventions tended to be small in scale and ephemeral, with no particular audience since they occurred outside the art gallery space (certainly until the late 1990s). This document is a close-up shot of two matchboxes placed side by side next to two waste pins. One box reads 'The Key Safety Match' and the caption indicates their precious distinct dried flower content. This coupling of everyday utilitarian packaging on the ground amongst weeds and detritus is imbued with a melancholic sobering poetry, particularly since these quasi invisible micro-events occurred in a Soviet era Eastern European society undergoing constant surveillance. 
All Kovanda's artistic practice poses the question of visibility. Having worked on actions and performance, the artist decided to 'disappear' from his artworks during twenty years; in 2007, his performance Kissing through glass in the institutional setting of Tate Modern was acclaimed by critics. Some works are only visible thirty years later via traces and archives; the artist's rehabilitation by institutions and galleries offers a new critical reading of his practice which had until then remained rather confidential. What is particularly noted are his links with the history of gesture since the 1970s. Jirí Kovanda's works have in common a great economy of means. The artist assures that we need “get along with what we have”, which in his case meant gestures, objects, and non-artistic materials, used in interventions or installations. The artworks are incredibly slight and come together in a fragile equilibrium: brushing against passers-by in the street (1977), making a branch hold on two chewing-gums (2008). His actions – theatre with no spectator ? – question the threshold of visibility, until they become 'absurd' (in the etymological sense of what cannot be heard). The artist ignites thinking about the other and about form, two ideas that connect the work. Kovanda's 'discreet' actions (leaving a discussion in a rush, bumping into passers-by in the street, making a pile of rubbish and scattering it, looking at the sun until tears come…) are always documented according to the same format: a piece of A4 paper, a concise typewritten text, and sometimes a photograph taken by someone else. In this action, the artist arrives for a rendez-vous 10 minutes early and positions himself to wait alone until his friends join him. Jirí Kovanda introduces slight disjunctions with the social use of time and this action plays with the notion of not arriving late. This work has resonance with a missed rendez-vous, one of the artist's last actions. On 23 January 1978, the artist did not appear for a rendez-vous he had made with friends on a square in Prague, 'disappearing' from his works until 2000. A complex relation comes to be between the action, its documentation, and its audience, posing the question of their meaning. His works have been exhibited some thirty years after they took place for a 'second audience'. “I think that the message was sending out was not intended for the people who were present when the actions happened at the concrete moment they were taking place. The message was intended more for those who would read about them as actions. What I was interested in was something ordinary, something normal, that might happen that way. That’s what they were all about. For me, they don’t have any symbolic meaning”, according to the artist. 
This ephemeral installation by Jirí Kovanda, documented in the same way as his performances with a photograph and a text, belongs to a body of works that took place in his apartment/studio. During an interview with Hans Ulrich Obrist, the artist highlighted that he had never had a studio and that this work space blended with his apartment. A piece of string cuts across the room in a diagonal; it functions as a scale to measure time and space. This element recurs in the artist's work: during the summer 1979, the artist pulled a string across riverbanks. This work makes present – through coexistence and contrast – the geometry and abstraction of this line with daily objects. The string modifies the space in a minimal way since it can no longer be perceived as a unit due to this diagonal. “At the time, I was reading a lot about zen. Even the most ordinary thing can become extraordinary with a small shift in context. And the simpler the shift, the better. It is just about perturbing a stereotype and intensifying a sensation, life”, said the artist in an interview with Guillaume Leingre (Particules, issue 18). This string could function like a haïku, the very short Japanese poems that aim to capture the evanescence of things: perhaps he is materializing a spider's web, a ray of sunshine, the link between two ideas… All Kovanda's artistic practice poses the question of visibility. Having worked on actions and performance, the artist decided to 'disappear' from his artworks during twenty years; in 2007, his performance Kissing through glass in the institutional setting of Tate Modern was acclaimed by critics. Some works are only visible thirty years later via traces and archives; the artist's rehabilitation by institutions and galleries offers a new critical reading of his practice which had until then remained rather confidential. What is particularly noted are his links with the history of gesture since the 1970s. Jirí Kovanda's works have in common a great economy of means. The artist assures that we need “get along with what we have”, which in his case meant gestures, objects, and non-artistic materials, used in interventions or installations. The artworks are incredibly slight and come together in a fragile equilibrium: brushing against passers-by in the street (1977), making a branch hold on two chewing-gums (2008). His actions – theatre with no spectator ? – question the threshold of visibility, until they become 'absurd' (in the etymological sense of what cannot be heard). The artist ignites thinking about the other and about form, two ideas that connect the work. 
Fathers #18 and Fathers #27  is part of a series of photographs and videos made in recent years in Gaza. Batniji addresses the representation of the over-identified human and physical space with the geographical and political situation in the region. He distinguishes himself from the fictions that have been previously created in the Middle East and offers a quieter and more retained vision of the of the intertwining tensions and oppositions in this area.Fathers offers an incomplete inventory of portraits that we often see framed and hanging on the walls of cafes, stalls, shops, workshops and other workplaces in Gaza and the Middle East. Often old and yellowed, sometimes dusty and slanted, these portraits rarely have links to the current owner and they relate instead to the person who founded the place and who left long ago. Since these places are overloaded with symbols and signs of presence (s) and disorder (s) but devoid of human inhabitants, or their owners, they become a particular paradigm of some sort of “still life”. This kind of places seem full (of products, objects, memories and signs of life) and empty at the same time. By overlooking different temporalities, memory and regards, or by being petrified, like ruins after a disaster that nobody will ever know,  they belong to the present and to the past. The power of these images lies in what they hold as much as in what they reveal.
Enguard Souvenir is composed of a group of eleven elements (ten paintings on paper and a sculpture) which deconstructs and recomposes the context of Tienanmen Square in Beijing. This square is known for numerous political events : the cultural revolution between 1966 and 1976, the arrest of the Gang of Four and protests in 1989 where thousands of demonstrators who were protesting against the corruption of the regime were killed. In this work, Bruno Pacheco alludes to the historical importance of this place, the choice of viewpoints reveals very precise but sporadic details there : part of the mausoleum devoted to Mao, a portrait of him and its frame, a view overlooking the Forbidden City, etc. On the square, two guards stand on their platform, facing each other, executing their rituals. The installation leads one to think about various angles of approach within a historical discontinuity. With a certain spontaneity, Bruno Pacheco crystallizes the gestures of the characters (guards) in his paintings. The different viewpoints are organized in order to construct a rhythmic visual narration. The sculpture is to be perceived at the centre point of the installation, it is the platform also found in the paintings though this one is empty, figuring the absence for the guard and require the public's projection in order to understand the participation of this object within the installation. The artist's cinematographic approach places an emphasis on form, frame and color in order to open a dialogue about the deconstruction of this site through this sequential and fragmentary mode. The worrying distance which is created develops a distinct form which alludes to the unfathomable chasm between memory and reality, private and public space. This work reveals the artist's political commitment and his interrogation regarding the individual within the collective. 
Wagon Wheel is a work with a fundamental dynamism that derives both from the rotating movement of the elements suspended on poles and the kicking of the legs of the figure. It is based on a pornographic image by Giulio Romano (ca.1499-1546). Romano had completed Raphael's frescos in the Vatican after the latter's death but was not paid for the work. Ziegler relates how in revenge Romano drew pornographic images on the buildings of the Vatican. The Pope erased them but Marcantonio Raimondi (ca. 1480-1534) turned the images into prints, a series called « I Modi », which were widely circulated in Rome and for which he was jailed. The Pope, realising they brought him into disrepute, gathered them all together and destroyed them. Other artists had copied them, however, and such copies exist in the British Museum. Wagon Wheel is the first sculpture of the figure that Ziegler made. He has since moved into figurative painting but he states that he could not have done this without making sculpture first. He believes this particular work is crucial to that development. It was inspired not only by the Romano prints, but also by seeing a sculpture of hands by Rodin. He feels that most of Rodin's sculptures are too complete for him to be able to work off them. But the sculpture of a hand fired his imagination because of its incompleteness. Wagon Wheel also relates to the sculpture of Ancient Greece which is frequently displayed as a compilation of fragments, with armatures supporting disparate parts and acting as surrogate limbs or body parts.
The Fifth Quarter might have taken its mysterious inspiration from the eponymous Stephen King story collated into the Nightmares & Dreamscapes collection. Various vanishing points and interior perspectives, like in another painting dated the same year called Continental Breakfast, create a complex matrix in which motifs, shadowy or geometric forms coexist to further confuse the map of this space. A disturbing yet alluring virtual reality composed of a medley of seemingly abstract designs is depicted through digital and painterly means. Architectural and landscape paintings in reflective metallic paints are characteristic of Ziegler's work shown at the time in Archipeinture at Le Plateau, Paris and Camden Arts Centre, London in (2006) and in his solo show Enter Desire at Chisenhale Gallery, London (2005). He was then known for using an industrial phosphorescent material called Scotchlight for its contemporary glow in order to blur distinctions between reality and representation.
Die Siedlung is a filmic documentary about the recent shift in housing developments in Leipzig-Grünau in former East Germany and its consequences on some inhabitants. It complements von Wedemeyer slightly earlier and more artistic film Silberhöhe (2003) which decried imposed Modernist living model. In Die Siedlung, a voiceover describes and criticizes the different sites on view while the camera moves slowly past a vast abandoned 1930s Nazi army barracks which has yet to be converted or demolished, the building site and wastelands for the new private single family housing area, a constructed pond and finally the 1960s or 70s communal blocks of flats. An estate agent is recorded introducing the newer building site and its future plans in rather deadpan and unconvincing terms, according to him the Bauhaus concept has met resistance from the majority of buyers. A cynical jobseeker expresses his disgust faced with the notion of private property in an interview. The short piece quietly but efficiently denounces the blind pressures of “social reconditioning”. Von Wedemeyer's work borrows from cinematic or documentary conventions (alike or separately) to analyze architecture as well as urban planning and their impact on behavior with great acuity.
Silberhöhe, directed at Halle, located in the former GDR (German Democratic Republic), is the name of a neighborhood on the outskirts of the city, which was built in the 70's and could accommodate more 40,000 people. The opening of the film presents us with a dramatic process that transforms the documentary image. The lack of human presence makes creates a strange atmosphere in the film. A street lit by streetlights pays homage to the film "The Eclipse" by Antonioni, of which we can also see an of the end of television in an empty apartment. Time is also treated by Von Wedermeyer as a transition from night to day, from darkness to light. In the second part of the film the abandoned buildings are seen more clearly, more or less demolished. Buildings being demolished not only speak of a crisis, but they also reflect a process of change during a modernist utopias' dissipation. There has been consideration of the failure of older systems, and changes of political regimes.
Milton Friedman on the wonder of the free market pencil is an installation based on 42 blank pages. On the first page, one can read the original version in English of the liberal speech by Milton Friedman on “The Story of the pencil”. On the other pages, the same text has been translated into 41 different languages by using Google Translate, before coming back to English. It is significant that Dublin, the artists' home town, is also a centre for IT industries and the site of Google's European offices. The final page becomes much shorter than the original text and it has been transformed into something raher incomprehensible. This work has not only an evident political and social dimension but also a poetic one: how a linguistic journey produces a loss of information but also leads to new interpretations. Kennedy Browne represented Ireland during the Venice Biennial in 2009, where this work was on view. 
A vehicle without light is a group of more personal photographs. This includes an image of a pirate radio in the 1960s, a story from the BBC website and the photo of Mary Aurore. Mary Aurore, is in fact a character he invented whose identity is impossible to determine but who appears in various works. Each photograph contributes to a cartography of clues. Each title also builds on the associations and complementaries between the works.
You see without light is a group of photographs around the theme of Bauhaus. This includes a reference to one of Gander's works which is the Bauhaus manifesto without dots on the letter 'i', as well as drawings of his ideal art school.
This work is meditative and fragile. These abstract forms are projected slides belonging to another lecture, Travelogue, where the images have been removed. What is left is the hole of the frame of the slide that light draws upon and projects on the wall. Seated on a group of corduroy cushions, the spectator is invited the follow the 'spectacle' of forms that appear and disappear to the rhythm of the two projectors. Ryan Gander presents us with a void which is a space to fill. Here absence is presence. He plays with emptiness and fullness, forms and counter-forms. These voids are proof of removed content, leaving an 'aura' which becomes a place for nostalgia or the imagination.
The work consists of a work inside a work. The spectator is presented with a commissioned documentary on a flat-screen Tv on the subject of the production of the making of an artwork that doesn’t exist entitled The magic and the meaning (2008). The imaginary film, The magic and the meaning,  is described only within the documentary, which follows parts of the making of the film, extracts from interviews with the writer and film maker Dan Fox and the artist and maker of the work Ryan Gander; as well as showing short slow-motion sections of the film that does not exist. The imaginary film is described as taking the form of a 16 mm black and white film study of young art students in an exhibition of Francis Bacon at Tate Britain, London. The film documents the students drawing and sketching the paintings that they see on the walls in their sketchbooks,  as an act of association to the world of art through a romantic gesture.
It is a little known fact that Lebanese historians were also gamblers during the war. They met every Sunday at the race courses. Race after race, the historians were positioned behind the press photographers who were there to take a picture of the winning horse passing the finishing line. The historians betted on how many fractions of seconds before or after passing the line the photograph would be taken. That is to say that no photo showed the horse on the finishing line. Each page of the notebook contains an image of the horse passing the finish line cut out of the Annahar newspaper on the following day. It features the annotations of doctor Fakhouri on the length and duration of the race, on the winning horse and his timing, his average speed, the initials of the different historians and their bets, the time between the snapshot and the passage of the finishing line, a very brief description of the winning historian (here the linguist). These documents provoke questions about historical fact. Why are there no images of the precise moment when the horse passes the finishing line? Does the press authorize the reproduction of false information? Conscious of the impossibility of capturing the exact moment, the historians bet not on the horses but on the photographer's margin of error. The evidence about an event is not necessarily linked to the production of an objective document. There can be no certain objectivity with photographic material.
Born in Uganda of Indian descent, Bhimji has lived in London after her family sought refuge from the regime of Idi Amin who compulsorily expelled all Asians from Uganda. Her recent work has been concerned with revisiting the country of her childhood and engaging with the experience of exile, political and social destruction, and deprivation. This photograph, which belongs to the series "Love", was shot by Bhimji during her journey in Uganda in 2001, but was only edited in 2006. It depicts Entebbe airport, the site of evacuation of Asian refugees as well as the site of a daring attempt to resolve a hijacking crisis by Israeli forces in 1976. Although still functioning, principally for private aircraft, it is dilapidated. Commercial flights use a more modern airport, as though Entebbe airport is too scarred by history to be reused. The contrast between the private aircraft and the destitute building is striking. The work evokes a bygone era as well as the consequences of enforced action. The play of light and shadow is emphatic, the dark interior, with its lattice window frames, evoking prison conditions in contrast to the verdant open landscape. The title of the work refers to Bhimji's father and his decision to leave Uganda, thus closing a chapter of the family history. By returning to Uganda, Bhimji has reopened it.
For this image, Olaf Breuning invented a revised stone age corrected for the cinema in which dolmens and leather were replaced by surf boards and neoprene clothing. With the beach as a backdrop, the hyper-aestheticized vikings seem to pose for a surf ad. The collage on the horizon line, the heterogenous nature of the lighting and the costume-like clothing all point to the mise en scène. The artist stated: “I am trying to invent a primitive tribe”. His positioning in relation to stereotype is dual: he exposes them by exaggerating them and displaces them by absorbing them within the iconography of his work.
The drawing “Heidegger’s Cabin” (2005) is inspired by Martin Heidegger's essay, “The Origin of the Work of Art." During the artist’s stay in a high alpine area, near a lake reservoir, Bussmann related the landscape in her surroundings to her reading of Heidegger’s terms on the work of art and the meaning of a “thing.” In attempt to link spiritual heights to natural heights, Bussmann metaphorically relates the subjects of being and truth to a hiking path, and its different degrees of challenge and risk. In the drawings rather than finding the optimal path to reach ultimate meaning and materialization, Bussmann never arrives at “Heidegger’s Cabin,” and instead is led off the beaten track to areas she never discovered before. Upon her return from the mountains in 2004 and 2005, she continued to develop the series, leading up to 20 drawings on handmade paper that attempt to problematize Heidegger’s theory on artworks as “things” as bearers of traits, “things” confronting the world of perception, and “things” as formed matter. 
Forest Gathering N.2 is part of the series of photographs Beneath the Roses (2003-2005) where anonymous townscapes, forest clearings and broad, desolate streets are revealed as sites of mystery and wonder; similarly, ostensibly banal interiors become the staging grounds for strange human scenarios. These scenes are tangibly atmospheric, visually alluring and often deeply disquieting. Never anchored precisely in time or place, these and the other narratives of Beneath the Roses are rather located in the dystopic landscape of the anxious American imagination. Crewdson's process and approach are patently cinematic. This series took shape over the course of three years in collaboration with a full production team. His projects are made both on studio soundstages and on location in various small towns. After the photograph is taken, Crewdson continues his obsessive process in post-production, using state-of-the-art digital compositing and special effects. And in the end – like film at its best – Crewdson's fictions, elaborately staged and plotted though they may be, convey an experience that is intensely real.
Vieques is an island off the mainland of Puerto Rico used by the U.S Navy and NATO forces as military testing ground as from the 1940s. Civil disobedience and active protest movements initiated by local inhabitants and an international support network led to the end of the bombings and progressive demilitarization in 2002. Allora & Calzadilla became involved in the defense of this cause in 2000 and made a series of works relating to the story of this island. This video demonstrates the beginning of their ongoing interest in the interplay between militarism and sound. In Returning A Sound, Homar, the motorcycle driver and activist, drives around the island as if reclaiming the territory. The muffler was altered so it no longer silenced the noise and became a musical instrument instead, like a trumpet to announce decontamination and recovery in echo to the terrible exploding sounds that had shaped the lives of the Vieques inhabitants for 60 years. “As artists, we became interested in questions related to the sonic violence that marked this space, as it was exposed to earsplitting detonations up to 250 days out of the year. The first work we made in that regard was Returning A Sound, which we filmed just after the military lands were semi-opened to the public in 2003.” Guillermo Calzadilla, quoted in Carlo Motta, “Allora & Calzadilla”, BOMB magazine, 109, Autumn 2009.
Filmed underwater, this is the third video in Nguyen-Hatsushiba's “Memorial Project” series which began in 2001. The title already implies the cultural complexities about to be ironically unravelled: Ho Chi Minh is parodied and Okinawa (where this was filmed) was a battle site in Japan during World War II which then became an American training base during the Vietnam War. To a remix of James Bond movie tracks composed by Quoc Bao, no less than thirty divers in wet suits and full gear advance against the water resistance armed with cartridges of color. They attack trestles with blank canvases on which they attempt to paint a yellow star but, after a showering of digital white stars likened to the American flag (presumably alluding to Christmassy snow), they find themselves uncontrollably portraying actors who played in Vietnam-related films like Marlon Brando, Michael Cimino, Robert De Niro… which then, end up leading to collapse and dissolving. Water creates a parallel world, symbolic of universal consciousness, which allows for the slow contemplation of these potentially alienating cultural transmissions. Nguyen-Hatsushiba's dramatized soft critique is across the board, from the sheer weight of Vietnamese tradition on one hand, to America's geo-political and cultural hegemony on the other, as well as the way war is represented in the media and in cinema (Vietnam was one of the first conflicts to have broad coverage).
In Untitled (after Paul Schultze Nuremberg’s Kunst) (2006), from a larger series of diptychs, Gmelin addresses the notion of entartete kunst ("Degenerate Art"). Each diptych juxtaposes a portrait of a person considered to be mentally handicapped with a painting that was branded by the Nazi regime as degenerate. Gmelin's source for these images is Kunst und Rasse ("Art and Race"), a book by Paul Schultze Naumburg published in 1928. Naumburg, one of Hitler's architects, was a member of the Nazi party and became director of the Weimar Kunsthochschule in 1930. In this capacity he organized an exhibition of 70 'degenerate' artworks from the Weimar Castle Museum. His book was something of a groundbreaker for the Nazi position on modernism. In the book he juxtaposed contemporary works of art with clinical photographs of people with medical deformities. He thus defined the art as pathological. Working from black and white reproductions from the original book, Gmelin himself makes another reproduction in paint. Just as the original thesis, that modern artists were equivalent to mentally handicapped people, is a distortion of the truth, Gemiln distorts his images one stage further. The grey painting, which represents the medically deformed person, is executed in a painterly way. Thus he has rendered a mentally handicapped person in a manner that in the 1920s and 1930s would have demonstrated a modern artist's degeneracy and declares her as a subject fit for art.  Paradoxically, he has disguised the mental abnormality of the person by juxtaposing the image with an interpretation of a modernist work leaving the viewer, for a moment, wondering which image was sourced from a painting and which from a photograph of a living person. The diptych is thus deeply ironic as well as poignant. But by treating the two images in a similar, painterly way, Gmelin also neutralizes the impact that the juxtaposition of the two images has when viewed on the page of the book. Gmelin thus offers a comment on how in our present culture art no longer has the capacity to shock; that anything goes. Transgression is more or less a thing of the past.
Ambiguous Gestures takes as its point of origin a film Gmelin discovered in his father’s archive. Filmed from a fixed point, it portrays his father in an intimate performance of body painting with a woman unknown to Felix Gmelin. The discovery of this footage was obviously disturbing. On the one hand there is an erotic encounter with someone who is not Gmelin’s mother; on the other hand the performance itself is strangely unerotic and unsensual. The performance clearly references the work of Klein and the Viennese actionists but has an Arcadian element divorced from the Viennese school. Two acts of painting take place; the mutual painting of bodies and the impression of those bodies on a series of canvases. Taking that as his own starting point, working from stills Felix Gmelin then painted his own paintings with the help also of an assistant, thus paralleling the process of his father. He wanted to focus on the painting aspect of the film rather than its erotic potential and draw a comparison between painting and film, further enhanced by the display of stills that forms part of the installation. The grisâtre quality of the paintings serves to highlight the intense colour of the film. By making what in some respects are conventional paintings from this most intimate of films, and painting found images, Gmelin neutralises its erotic charge, making the film ‘innocent, beautiful and affirmative’. While the film is ‘embarrassing in every possible sense’ to the artist, its conjunction with his paintings and the stills transforms it into another manifestation of a utopian project. Gmelin cleanses his father ‘s work literally and metaphorically, washing the film and creating paintings using rubber gloves and brushes.
This work refers to the "Dream Machine", an experimental object invented by the painter and writer Brion Gysin and the scientist Ian Sommerville, and which is composed of a light bulb with light passing through slits in a rotating cylinder. Loris Gréaud revisits the structural mechanism; the light variations, following the frequency shift of the "Dream Machine",, which is transcribed here by the undulations of the light produced by the filament lamps. Beyond this technological reference, the artist also quotes stories, legends, rumors about this invention in order to crystallize them in a contemporary technological object. The light frequency generates mental images, physiologically modifying the information transmitted to the brain via the optical nerve and psychologically modifying the state of consciousness of the spectator. These changes in vision need to be experienced in the entire space of the exhibition – as was the case during Silence Goes More Quickly When Played Backwards at Le Plateau, Paris, in 2005. Dream Machines, to be seen with eyes closed, was in parallel with another of his works in the Kadist collection, CFL, watercress shoots that the spectator was invited to consume in order to better perceive in the dark space. The three lightboxes create a screen and the spectator's mental images are projected on this surface. Gréaud removed the screen from its usual rationales as an optical device, to allow the gaze to enter the imaginary.
The acronym "CFL" stands for an existing light standard (Compact Fluorescent Light) as well as a standard nutrient (Cognitive Fooding Laboratory). "CFL" is a mobile laboratory for growth of watercress shoots which contain high levels of anthocyanin – a natural pigment used by fighter pilots to increase their visual acuity at night in order to achieve better responses to light stimuli. In the work Celador, a taste of illusion (2007), the viewer is invited to consume the plants – a candy with the flavor of illusion. "CFL," which refers to a possibility of better viewing in the dark, was made alongside Dream machines which consists of light boxes to see with closed eyes. These inventions blend biochemistry, science fiction, and parapsychology. "The artist's taste for fiction, scripts, playing with fears, fantasies and obsessions herein, exemplifies a quest for a work which only exists by rumors," critic Marjolaine Lévy has stated.
Wash and Go (2001) is divided into two stages and operates like a slide show. In the first part, the camera scans the interior of an apartment, focusing on elements of daily life to finally settle and frame a bottle of shampoo with the slogan "Wash and Go." The camera isolates the word "Go " and slides over the word "Away", and then takes focuses on another slogan "The People You Need are only a touch away." Afterwards, the camera gradually widens its frame to reveal a billboard campaign in the streets of Tirana. The images reveal a devastated city, dotted with scrappy buildings, and urban noises – each of who accompany this vision of abandonment.
Drawing, which is the essential embodiment of Fabrice Hyber’s artistic thinking, is at the origin of all his works. The artist uses accumulation, hybridization and mutation to create constant shifts between extremely varied domains. Each work is just an intermediate, evolving stage of this “work in progress” that spreads like a proliferation of thought, establishing links and exchanges that then help to create other connections. The process is inspired by the way in which the cell systems grow in living organisms, with immigrant and feeding flows, reflecting the passion for science that motivates the artist, who trained as a mathematician.
The works of Fabrice Hyber provoke divergent ways of thinking. In a kindred spirit with Raymond Hains, image and writing are intertwined. Drawings and diagrams are visually direct, as shown in the series of "Peintures Homéopathiques" ("Homeopathic Paintings"), collages covered in transparent resin (1986-1988). In Cellman (2003) on the bottom right, stones and the arrows refer to skipping stones of "thinking". A recurring human figure, commonly associated with Hyber's theatrical world, is shown in Cellman and also L'homme de Bessines (1990). The artist uses writing as an engine of formal and semantic associations ("galet, galette, cellman, bulle, cellule "). The figure recalls that the body is a collection of cells. Like in the work Artère, le jardin des dessins ( Artery, the garden of drawings, a monument commissioned by Sidaction, Parc de la Vilette, Paris), the artist captures the inner workings of the body through schemas.
A child and dreamer my whole life long (broken tree) (2004) is a sculpture made of filler, wire, copper, oil paint, and wood depicting a tree just at it’s moment of breaking into half – one part alive with foliage and blooming branches and the other the crisp of the break exposed, with the trunk adhered solidly to a plinth. The sculpture appears to speak quite bluntly about Isaac’s own sense of bleak pessimism when exposing a severed tree, the universe’s sacred sign of life and birth. Through the perfect rendering of this encapsulated moment, Isaacs demonstrates the strength of the sculptural artifact and his interest in failure and fragility. It also denotes that a sculpture is capable of giving off a very emotive and sensory feeling in an instant– the crisp snap of life through the metaphor of the break of the tree.
In New York City's Chinatown, subject Suat Ling Chua's morning exercise is to practice the hula hoop. When Christian Jankowski first saw this woman he immediately got the idea to shoot Rooftop Routine. In the short video, Chua leads the group and dictates the movements that each participant has to repeat. Only one person of the group can directly see Chua and thus each person mimics another from roof to roof, altering the choreography after each passage like in a play of "Chinese whispers." With this performance, Jankowski explores the social organization of a specific context. It brings together people of several buildings in the same project beyond isolation and social barriers of the urban environment. "In a work, new things, unknown things can happen. The important thing is to initiate a project to bring together the right people. Then the mechanism takes unpredictable paths. Until...voila!..the work is done," says Jankowski. 
Like many contemporary photographers who play with the codes of realism, Valérie Jouve composes her images, having already a more or less predetermined result in mind, in order to deliver a complex representation of the world instead of a bold presentation of facts. A part of the series "Les Figures", this "portrait' of P. Faure carries a strong ambiguity, typical of the photographer's images, between realism and mise-en-scene.This photograph is exemplary of Valérie Jouve's work: inscription of an inidual within an urban landscape, relation to architecture, simplicity of composition and strong, yet imprecise narrativity - related in part to seemingly familiar characters or places. The position of the body is somewhat sculptural enhancing the impression of suspended movement, reminding of Walking man by Giacommeti. This reference is underlined by the man's attitude, looking down, introspectively. The character's intensity places him on the surface, as if he were stuck onto the landscape. Despite his being namely identified, the man seems as anonymous as the undefined background behind him.
These two images come from the series called "State of Control" which Kilpper made in the building formerly occupied by the Stasi in Berlin. As a symbol of the past there could be none more powerful than this. By carving into its floor, Kilpper laid bare its history by making images of its occupants and political figures associated with that period of history. Willy Brandt, Guenter Guillaume and Dietrich Sperling reminds us of all the intrigue of the Cold War when Brandt’s secretary Guillaume was passing secrets at the highest level to the East. Seen whispering in Brandt’s ear, he is perceived to be feeding false information. Sperling was a minister in Brandt’s government. The photograph on which the image is based was taken at the height of Guillaume’s treachery and treasonous conduct. The image of John Heartfield standing behind Silvio Berlusconi is based on a photomontage of Heartfield with the President of the Berlin Police Karl Zoergiebel of 1929 thus bringing together Heartfield, one of the greatest and most vivid critics of the Nazi era and manipulator of images through collage, with Berlusconi, one of the most rightwing, but freely elected leaders in Europe who manipulates the news and images through his media empire. These images are large scale and have a dramatic impact. In his use of woodcut, Kilpper’s work resonates with the large scale woodcuts of Christiane Baumgartner already in the collection.
Bad innovation in the name of protection is not a ready-made, but was made entirely by the artist, representing a stroller. Its interior is shielded and designed for babies in the case of conflict. Camouflaged, it resembles a small tank. Is it to protect or to attack? Is this object, full of ambiguity, for harmless babies or child soldiers? Privileged or excluded, this work alludes to survival and inequality faced by the question of life or death. The object materializes the primitive desire of protection induced by fear. How can we look at the world through this stroller? Is the pleasure of  seeing, breathing, feeling, still possible? Is it a shield to live, to survive or to go against life?
This work  is one of Koller’s many variations which he began to use from 1970 to describe the ‘cultural situations’ he created. His "Anti-Happenings" turned mundane events into 'cultural' and 'subjective' situations. He sought to create new cultural situations that weren't new art, but rather new ways of living: a new creativity for a new humanistic culture. In the face of Communist ideology, subjectivity reclaimed its role with all of its poetry and discord.The critic Jan Verwoert has commented on the significance of this constantly shifting reference: it ‘becomes a metaphor for the invasion of reality by the imagination. As such, it captures the essence of Utopian thought: to confront the microcosm of an actual state of affairs with the macrocosm of infinite possibilities – to show that society can be changed.’ (Jan Verwoert, ‘Július Koller: Kölnischer Kunstverein, Cologne, Germany’, Frieze no.79, November–December 2003, pp.98–9.) 
The photograph Monologic - Yo-Yo 1, 2 (U.F.O.),(1982), shows Koller playing with a big white Yo-Yo in a drab concrete building among a group of tower blocks. For him, games like ping-pong or the yo-yo representsed the possibility of a more playful society in the face of socialist standardization.Koller's semiological manipulations of landscape and topography, of places and (his own) faces, investigate the possibilities of shifting meaning by the simplest alterations. In deadpan-humorist fashion, most poignantly displayed in a series of photo-portraits that cover a period of more than four decades, he systematically explores the relationship between art and alienation, or the idea of art as alienation. "U.F.O.-naut J.K." becomes the artist's altered ego, an extraterrestrial maker and distributor of universal signs: question marks, Ping-Pong balls, or wave lines, a more recent signature symbol, formed by tennis balls in a swimming pool in 1992 or drawn on the floor in the "antiperformance" Nova vaznost', 1991." (Tom Holert, Artforum, October, 2004).  
Wordplay was a central focus of Koller’s work, in particular the acronym U.F.O., which he adapted in his diagrammatic drawings to stand variously for Univerzálna Futurologická Organizácia (Universal Futurological Organization, 1972–3), Univerzálny Filozoficky Ornament (Universal Philosophical Ornament, 1978) or Underground Fantastic Organization (1975), and which also appeared in a series of slapsticky self-portraits titled ‘U.F.O.–naut’ (1970–2007). These infinite variations on a common cipher constituted an insistent incantation of the Utopian principle. Friedrich Nietzsche argued that to realize a fundamental critique of ‘bad faith’ means to move beyond cynicism and embrace a radical optimism that exceeds the petty dialectics of expectation and disappointment. In his approach to life and art as the U.F.O.–naut, Koller embodied precisely this: he actualized the potential of his imagination as a form of existential agency. As we get entangled in the strange possibilities of art and ideas, we all become U.F.O.–nauts and are deeply indebted to Koller, our patron saint of U.F.O.–nauts. 
Anti-Happening refers to Koller’s 1965 manifesto, ‘Anti-Happening (System of Subjective Objectivity)’. In opposition to the notion of a ‘happening’ as a way of actualising group identity, in his manifesto, Koller stated that his concept of the ‘anti-happening’ aimed at a ‘cultural reshaping of the subject, at awareness, at the surroundings and the real world’ [i]. Unlike happenings, these actions do not involve the staging of psychologically expressive performances.  As the art historian Piotr Petrowski has noted, it is part of ‘an attitude that aims to erase the boundaries between different art tendencies (art and anti-art, modernist and neo-avant-garde painting), between different forms of neo-avant-garde practice (performance, conceptual art, Fluxus) and, above all, between art and life’[ii].[i] Kathrin Rhomberg and Roman Ondák (eds.), Julius Koller: Univerzálne Futurologické Operácie, Cologne 2003. p.126.[ii] Piotr Piotrowski, In the Shadow of Yalta: Art and the Avant-Garde in Eastern Europe, 1945–1989, London 2009.   
This work emphasises Kitty Kraus's involvement with process, with alchemical transformations associated with Post-Minimalist aesthetics, Arte Povera, Joseph Beuys and Robert Smithson. The loss of form or its dissolution is at the heart of the series of lamps encapsulated in blocs of ice with liquid progressively spreading on the floor. The bulb is embedded in the ice. The cubic form is compact, minimal and resembles an explosive device. Once the lamp is switched on, the ice melts inevitably. The color black spreads on the floor to form an abstract landscape. It is as if we are confronted with a common mechanical accident but the realization has a very precise protocol. She makes wooden boxes with silicone which are filled with water that enables the moulding of the form. Electric lights are often present in works of the second half of the 20th century to refer to daily objects (Rauschenberg, the Nouveaux Réalistes) or to transcendental aspirations (Dan Flavin, Mario Merz). Here we are faced with a sombre beauty that destroys the object, the form and metaphysical aspirations while creating a changing form that is close to black dripping covering the ground.
Composed of two rectilinear pieces of glass, this work is part of a series of sculptures started in 2006. These transparent assemblages are in contact with the walls and floor of the exhibition space. The sculptures of this series are the same dimensions with different combinations. A large glass plaque associated with a smaller one recur to suggest the proportions of a human body. The glass plaques are joined simply with adhesive tape. The gaze must distinguish these in space, bodies need to work around them. The work plays on the tension between elements that are controlled (dimensions, balance) and those that are uncontrollable. These minimalist, transparent and perfect forms are nevertheless sharp enough to endanger the skin surface. The works in this series recall the large steel plaques by Richard Serra if only because they entirely integrate the possible collapse of the form.
Madani works on a small scale and a large scale. This work is from a series of small paintings called Dazzle Men that take as their starting point the Dazzle patterns used by artists to camouflage ships during the First World War. Dazzle camouflage was designed to confuse the aim of U boat commanders. Its unstable, brightly coloured distortions were closely allied to modernist painting and indeed formed the subject of a memorable series of woodcuts and a major painting by the British Vorticisit Edward Wadsworth. In Madani’s painting Middle Eastern looking men take as their model an image of a dazzleship for the purpose of self-disguise. Applying paint to their bodies they adopt the strategy of maquillage that is essentially feminising. Madani thereby satirises the overly masculine society these men inhabit. While some have applied only small amounts highlighting their breasts, others have applied stripes recalling prison outfits. These men are trapped in their own world, prisoners of the stereotyping that grows out of education, religion and culture. In conversation with Doug McClemont Madani stated: ‘I’m interested in the behaviour of the masses.  Creating icons, figures and then having later on to destroy. The creation of icons, which then inevitably are destroyed because the icon becomes corrupt, or something. To me, that’s very religious behaviour, needing to put something up on a pedestal. And the mass behavioral tendency of later on of being almost inevitably oppressed by it somehow. Having to bring it down. In a way painting is poking fun at religious behaviour. The masses can behave ridiculously in many circumstances.’
The piece consists of sculpture of 10 elements, among them: a globe, a picture of a gorilla, a chair, scrabble letters, 3 glasses of black ink, a book whose title is illuminated by the beam of a 8mm projector, a pair of boots, etc. The display is a collection of selected objects chosen in response to the reading of a text by Alain Badiou (the first chapter of the seminar "Le réel est l'impasse de la formalisation; la formalisation est le lieu de passe en force du réel" from February 4, 1975). The elements are a visual way to question the transposition of an idea into reality. The challenge of the work lies in translating the speech of an artistic image, which itself generates speech. "For me the display of objects, is to provide support for a thought experiment, of a philosophy that "would return to the things themselves."  Here I associate these "things themselves" to concrete objects." In this sense, the work may be considered "complete" on the day in which the philosopher will use this display as a possible image for his thought. This network of indices awaits new meanings and interpretations. Emblematic of the artist, this work is rhizomatic. Some elements of this display have indeed contributed to other works made thereafter. For example, the image of gorilla refers to a work entitled Purpose Monkey (2007), while the book Le Bonheur de Vivre presented as part of the display was the subject of a video shown at the Biennale in Lyon in 2007.
Soft Materials is a curious, touching but also disturbing sequence of confrontations between two people: a man and a woman, and machines. Shot in the Artificial Intelligence Laboratory at the University of Zurich, the humans and the machines mirror each other's actions. It is unclear which party takes the lead. Do the humans mimic the machines or are the machines following the humans? Each of the protagonists, whether human or mechanical, are vulnerable and naked –the humans stripped of clothing and the machines lacking protective covering. Like the celebrated film "Ballet Mechanique" by Leger, Martin's film suggests the erotics of the mechanised world. The film evokes a history of modernist aspiration for utopia where man and machine would become bedfellows or at least entirely complimentary. The machines learn to think and act like humans echoing their appearance and actions. The work references both American body performance art of the 1960s and 1970s as well as Robert Morris's work “Neoclassic” in which a naked dancer was filmed interacting with his sculptures at the Tate Gallery in 1971 in a series of peaceful, trancelike actions.
 The Mohawk, the emblematic Frontier river in the period of American colonisation, is here a cable of data transmission, and the 7 Sultans Casino is a virtual destination, one of the three hundred online casinos hosted by the servers located in Kahnawake, a small native american indian reserve to the south of Montreal. Incorporating poker, challenges to the law, a struggle for the control of a new territory where the stakes are high, our film 'The New Kahnawake', between fiction and documentary, pushes these analogies with the Western to explore both our relationship to the figure of the 'Indian' and the confusion of our perception of space that new information technology has brought about. As the artists state: "We are neither anthropologists nor journalists. We didn't want to make a documentary on the Mohawks; we'll leave that to the Mohawks themselves who haven't waited for us to develop operational systems for their cinematic and audiovisual productions. Describing our last film, Manmuswak, we say that it is at once a fiction about the life of 'invisible' immigrants and a documentary about our way of perceiving them: this is the viewpoint that we would like to keep in this new film. If this is a documentary then the subject is us. We are documenting ourselves, in an 'extrospective' rather than introspective way. We are a multitude of things: a man and a woman, a heterosexual couple, the mother and the father of a little girl; we are the descendants of the working class and of the bourgeoisie, of white colonialists and black slaves, we are consumers, creators of cultural wealth, polluters, militants, internet users; we are French, we are European, we are westerners... So, in some respects we are similar to those who appear in the film, to the Mohawks, to the Quebecois, and to the gamblers, and we differ in others. Our film is a way of posing ourselves certain questions. In what way does this story interest us? That is, in what way does it involve us and concern us? In what way can it inform us? That is to say, teach us about ourselves and our place in the world process of globalisation." 
Untitled was part of the 2002 exhibition “Drawings for the Austrian School”  held at the D’Amelio Terras gallery in New York. For this occasion, Morris created a language of his own by using acrylic, ink, graphite and ballpoint pen on paper.  The exhibition title comes from Morris’ interest in the early 20th century Austrian economist Joseph Schumpeter, a one time Austrian Minister of Finance, bank director, and economics professor who taught in Europe and at Harvard University. He is considered the founder of “evolutionary economics.” One of his most well-known economic terms is “creative destruction,” which states that entrepreneurs with new ideas must destroy business models and practices that came before them in order to stimulate economic change. Many of Morris’ earlier drawings are dedicated to technology companies that no longer exist, having been incorporated into larger organizations or made obsolete by changes in the market, exemplifying Schumpeter’s process. Untitled refers to these theories, layering together repetitive motifs that subtly mutate from one page to the other.
In Felicitas, we follow the converging routes of three characters: Felicitas, Michael and Andrew (the artist's father-in-law who also features elsewhere). Felicitas is thedaughter of a German industrialist who immigrated to Rio after the Second World War. She is the one visible with a toucan in several images. In his work, Pablo Pijnappel privileges pre-existing images – the slides presented here are photographs found in his family archives or from other sources (media, photographs of film sets…). Sometimes, the same image is used several times with a different caption, thus encapsulating other meanings. Presented in the form of an installation with three synchronized slide projectors, Felicitas offers a complex scenario, where text and images can simultaneously be descriptive, intermingled or completely autonomous. Disjunctions and repetitions create the pace: the captioned images appear one after the other, with no regular order, sometimes on the left, in the centre or on the right. Even though the story follows a certain chronology, it is not linear and looks more like a complex collage of images and anecdotes which overlap. The text does not illustrate the images but functions as a complement that allows for the creation of multiple readings of the characters, of their lives, their trips and encounters. These collages are a mixture of real and fictional stories that enable Pijnappel to play with the notion of the documentary. The subtitles are in an informative tone, but they are mostly subjective and imagined commentaries thus creating what can be called a documentary fiction. This artwork has cinematographic qualities while deconstructing those conventions. Chris Marker's film La jetée in which the relation between voice-over and still images creates a space for free interpretation was a likely direct influence.
Zbigniew Rogalski territory extends from painting to photography. Here, the artist turned his attention towards the photographic qualities in painting and towards the pictorialism found in photography. As the artist mentions on his website," this work is about flying and the experiences connected with it - the person floats under the ceiling like a balloon, being hunched in a position recommended during an emergency landing".
Ghost Games, follows the enigmatic dance of crabs "steered" by a flashlight in the night of darkness of a South American beach. The video produces a surreal impression, typical of Sala’s work, with no plot in the classical sense, no story being told. Like in Blindfold (2002), in which a sunrise is reflected in urban billboards, and Time After Time (2001), in which the figure of a horse emerges from darkness lit by the headlights of an automobile, Sala likes to explore the phenomenon of light and its effects; In Ghost Games, he uses the threatening reflection of the flash light through the darkness of the beach. But unlike several of Sala’s videos’ deliberately slow style, where sometimes the camera does not even move at all, this film is punctuated by the erratic moves of the monster-like creature , its ghostly disappearances into sand holes; the crab’s occasional encounters with the feet of unidentified people standing in the sand, at times like an aggressive dance of protagonists, dramatically adds to the creepy feeling of the scene.
SUPERFLEX makes a distinction between two types of projects wit different temporalities: works that occur during an exhibition and other that evolved over several years. Thus, since 1997, they are working on a biogas system (SUPERGAS), first installed in Kenya, then Thailand and today in Mexico, perfecting at each stage the means of production, utilization and commercialization of this system. GUARANA POWER is one of these sustainable projects that create a real economy. The story begins in 2003 when SUPERFLEX was invited to Maués by a foundation and the government of the Brazilian state of Amazonas; this led to a collaboration with a cooperative of Guarana farmers. Maués is famous for its Opera shown in the film Fitzcarraldo but also as an industrial area situated in a free zone and housing multinationals such as Toshiba, Samsung or Benetton. During a first workshop with the Guarana farmers, they started discussing how to find common solutions to cultivate and commercialize Guarana without bending to the demands of the multinationals (like Antartica) who exploit the fruit and constantly reduce production costs and therefore labour costs. Thus the farmers' experience and the concepts introduced by SUPERFLEX lead to the set up of efficient strategies of communication which are regularly perfected to sell the Guarana Power bottles internationally. Right from the beginning of the project, Superflex decided to self-censure itself by using a barred logo following threat by the main multinational. The artwork was also censured by the director of the Sao Paulo Biennale in 2006, which provoked important reporting in the press at the time. More generally, this project poses the question of the role of art and its limitations with regards producing effective consequences in response to a socio-political situation. 
Good life (2007) is an installation displaying letters, documents, photographs and objects from a man named Joseph Carrier, and appropriated by artist Danh Vo.  The installation features a series of small square vitrines, inset, dark and precisely spot-lit. Inside these are framed photographs, mostly black and white, of young Asian men, taken, as the titles on the neat brass name plates tell us, in Vietnam in the 1960s and early 1970s. In one vitrine, an old-fashioned camera sits propped up on its worn leather case. In another is a typewritten document titled ‘Beliefs, Attitudes and Behaviour of the Lowland Vietnamese’ and a crumpled business card, belonging to one ‘Joseph M. Carrier, National Academy of Sciences’. Presumably Carrier was the owner of the camera, an American in Vietnam during the war on an anthropological rather than a combat mission. We learn while viewing the installation, in the form of letters and correspondence that Carrier and Vo met during a personal exhibition of Vo’s at the Villa Aurora. The fruits of that meeting led Vo to create this archive on Carrier’s subjective experience in the 1960’s and 1970’s, all derived from Carrier’s personal possessions. This work is exemplary for its consideration of the archive and Vo’s incessant attempt to shed light on subdued homosexuality in Vietnam, appropriation, and surrogate biographies. 
The work “Les Fleurs d’intérieur” (which gives its name to the exhibiton presented at Kadist Art Foundation from May 30 to July 13, 2009) is a brass plate engraved with the inventory list of the works included in the show. From this moment, Dahn Vo will use this brass plates as a systematic element for all his exhibitions.
Eight opens with a close up of a painting by Hubert Robert of the Chateau de Chamarande where the film was shot. This work  acts as a key to the unfolding film. In Eight, the camera tracks back and forth, proceeding from room to room, closing in on each motif, lingering and then passing on without ‘comment’, as a surrogate for the spectator’s gaze. Each tableau vivant that the camera/viewer encounters recalls some other cultural manifestation: Greek theatre in the mask, Magritte perhaps in the woman with no face, Caspar David Friedrich in the woman gazing out of the window, Greuze in the death scene observed by spectators (but also perhaps 19 century medical demonstrations to students) etc. Many of these motifs recur in von Brandenburg’s work so there is also a sense of self-reference. The film enshrines ambiguity; are these people alive or dead, animate or inanimate wax works? Only the paper that inflates and deflates indicates a living presence. This is the only motif that engages with the cinematic. Everything else is photographic and theatrical. Just as the film is destined to loop eternally (evoked by the moebius strip) so the figures seem to be frozen forever in their poses. However, part of the disquiet occurs in the gap between what we know and what we don’t know. Once the camera has passed do the figures come to life? Before the camera reaches them are they animate? The spectator is caught between worlds, between the conscious and the unconscious, the knowing and not knowing, in a timeless world staged for his inspection.
Board has a deadpan quality worthy of Buster Keaton. With this work, Wood and Harrison create an intimate, formally structured mise-en-scène in which they use their own bodies in interaction with a wooden board. The artists elaborate an orchestration of  the comic consequences of inertia, gravity, and the law of falling bodies in this low-tech physics experiment. Their mix of Conceptual art and slapstick conveys a sense of inspired pranksterism. Board (1993)  is one of the very first works they made in collaboration.
Landscape for fire is a major work by Anthony McCall. The film recounts a performance where characters in white, light up fires in a very orchestrated choreography of lights in a vast flat landscape. The performance is carefully planned – the fires are lit and geometrically aligned in a precise temporal progression.The appearance of the characters is preceded by a a horn, playing on our perception of a distant sound, strange and scary, suggesting a limit or a hazard. The crackling of matches, the ignition of gasoline, and the brisk breeze of the wind helps us to feel part of this strange celebration as we face the elements air, earth, and fire. A radical breath streams through the work. The editing of the film multiplies perspective: creation, presence, disappearance inhabit this powerful and original work.
Goicolea has made drawings based on a family album of relations that he did not know but who in one way or another contributed to his history and to the predicament in which he now finds himself as a Cuban in America. He then mounted the drawings on trees, telegraph poles or buildings and photographed them. Taken in these situations the drawings appear like advertisements for lost people or even posters for wanted criminals that of course conjures up images of loss not only of boat people but those who perished in other disasters, whether natural catastrophes or 9/11. The representation of the drawing in a photograph mirrors the distancing of Goicolea from his ancestors, for the drawing is translated and placed in an anonymous location from which, after photography, it is removed. The photograph is a witness to a past act, as the album is a witness to Goicolea’s own past. Together, the drawing and the photograph set up a interesting dynamic that invokes notions of past and present, the concept of reproducibility, memorialisation, and fact and fiction.
Goicolea has made drawings based on a family album of relations that he did not know but who in one way or another contributed to his history and to the predicament in which he now finds himself as a Cuban in America. He then mounted the drawings on trees, telegraph poles or buildings and photographed them. Taken in these situations the drawings appear like advertisements for lost people or even posters for wanted criminals that of course conjures up images of loss not only of boat people but those who perished in other disasters, whether natural catastrophes or 9/11. The representation of the drawing in a photograph mirrors the distancing of Goicolea from his ancestors, for the drawing is translated and placed in an anonymous location from which, after photography, it is removed. The photograph is a witness to a past act, as the album is a witness to Goicolea’s own past. Together, the drawing and the photograph set up a interesting dynamic that invokes notions of past and present, the concept of reproducibility, memorialisation, and fact and fiction.
KLAU MICH is a TV and performance project by Dora García with Ellen Blumenstein, Samir Kandil, Jan Mech, TheaterChaosium, and Offener Kanal Kassel, during the 100 days of dOCUMENTA (13).
Clemens von Wedemeyer has imagined a trip back in time at Breitenau. Starting with events that happened there from 1933 to 1945, the German artist has composed three stories that reach the years of the women’s reformatory, in the 1970s, with a different protagonist for each era. A work that attempts to bring out the “pathology” of the site, as the artist tells Bert Rebhandl, and at the same time its “unforgettable” status as a black hole in the history of Germany, that sucked up innocent lives for almost a century. Text by: by Bert Rebhandl 
A bronze figurine of a young female ballerina resembling Degas' model kneeling on the floor in the same pose as the model in Edward Weston's photograph "Nude", 1936.  In the same space as the figure is an ultramarine blue cube measuring 20 x 20 x 20 cm and a white plinth measuring 100 x 40 x 40 cm.
The 10 $1 bills that make up From a Whisper to a Scream (2012) read like instructions in origami. From left to right, each bill is progressively folded up, step by step, into the shape of a gun. Both a scream and a whisper are capable of conveying the same content, if at drastically different decibels, the artist proposes. The folded guns suggest that United States currency carries with it an implicit violence. Though ordinarily barely audible, Capistran’s lucid permutations make that violence loud and clear. From a Whisper to a Scream is also the title of a 1987 horror film (also called The Offspring), in which a historian describes a series of gruesome murders that take place in a small town, the seeming center of an incomprehensibly evil force. In this case, the treacherous power is shown to be ubiquitous—the foundation of an economy that permeates everything and leaves no one untouched.
To make his series Shadows (1980), Gaines subjected 20 potted plants to a uniform procedure. Each is pictured four times: a photograph of the plant, a photograph of its shadow, a drawing of the plant, and a drawing of its shadow. Instead of lending structure to disparate entities, this system serves a counterintuitive purpose, dissolving the object. Just as meaning can be drained from a word through relentless repetition, Gaines’s thorough application of an invented representational system undermines the thing-ness of the simplest thing. Here, the artist effectively questions a concept as vast as objective truth by presenting an alternate theory of an object as ordinary as a houseplant
For I use to eat lemon meringue pie till I overloaded on my pancreas with sugar and passed out; It seemed to be a natural response to a society of abundance (1978), also known as the Bodybuilder series, Martinez asked male bodybuilding competitors to pose in whatever position felt “most natural.” They are obviously trained in presenting their ambitiously carved physiques, but their facial expressions seem comparatively unstudied. Against a bare white background, the men appear unexpectedly vulnerable, caught between performance and rehearsal, public and private. While they present themselves deliberately as exemplars of strength, they also inadvertently expose something about the value system that underlies their endeavors—whatever drove them to keep building by tearing tissue, and whatever makes flexing feel like the most honest pose possible.
Avenida Corona del Rosal (2011) is painted with the collected byproducts of automobiles in Mexico City – diesel soot, dirt, tire and brake wear particles – to create an ironically poetic and beautiful portrait of the pollution that ravishes the city.
In his project Instituto de Vision (2008), Consuegra investigates how modernism gave rise to many new technological forms of vision, most notably the camera, yet also resulted in the disappearance of outmoded forms of vision. As a metaphor for this process, he looks to the afterlife of the image as evidenced in signs. When a company goes out of business or moves, their sign often lingers and slowly fades creating a ghosted image of their sojourn. This exploration of the relics of modern visual experience questions the advancements made by modernism and its losses.
Escultura publica en la periferia urbana de Monterrey is a public sculpture on the periphery of the city of Monterrey. It consisted of a concrete foundation that was free to use by the people of Monterrey. Apart from being used as a platform for a political rally, it was transformed among others into a marketplace, a hangout, until eventually becoming claimed by a man who built his house on it. The house remains there to this day. 
Goshka Macuga is a Polish artist living in London. She works with archival materials she finds in libraries and museums. Her work often begins with the history of the sites in which she is working, researching the collections of the institutions she works with, the work of artists she is interested in. Sometimes she recreates works by other artists, blurring the boundaries between artist and curator. For example at the Kunsthalle Basel, she recreated a 1971 exhibition of sculptures by Robert Morris that took place at the Tate Gallery in London which was closed by Tate authorities after 4 days as a result of safety scares. Macuga’s recreation allowed the public to experience the danger as well as the avant-garde nature of that exhibition. Her Basel show also engaged with issues relating to Neocolonialism, the arms race and US militancy, bringing together photographs taken by Aby Warburg during his exploration of the Hopi tribe in Arizona in the mid 19th century, a video of her own journey on the footsteps of Warburg and snapshots taken by a Vietnam war veteran that Makuga acquired on the Internet. She juxtaposed these with images of contemporary events relating to Afghanistan and Iraq and the economic crisis. More recently she brought a tapestry of Guernica that normally hangs at the United Nations in New York, to the Whitechapel Gallery in London and used it as a backdrop for public meetings. At documenta in Kassel, she exhibited a tapestry that brought together photographic images of the artists in documenta and a view of people in Kabul. Macuga’s work is engaged with political issues of her times.In this anti-collage, which comes from a series of 4, Macuga takes a photo she found in the archives of Zacheta National Gallery in Warsaw. The series was made on the occasion of her exhibition there in 2011. In 2000, Harald Szeemann curated an exhibition at Zacheta called 'Beware of Exiting your Dreams: You May Find Yourself in Somebody Else’s.’ The exhibition provoked a violent response as a result of his inclusion of Maurizio Cattelan’s La nona ora, where the figure of the Pope is struck down by a meteor. The work was vandalized by an MP; Anda Rottenberg, the director of the museum received a stream of abusive letters, many of them anti-semitic. Rottenberg organized a series of shows that were regarded by right wing Poles as scandalous and eventually she was forced to leave her post in 2001. In Anti-Collage, Rottenberg, depicted at a ceremony celebrating the centenary of Zacheta at the Presidential Palace, has been silhouetted out of the image. The void represents not only a dark period of Polish cultural history but also reflects upon the way in which history is rewritten in fascistic societies, particularly in former Soviet-style countries where inconvenient memories are erased. Ironically of course she stands between two Polish flags. After destroying Cattelan's work, the MP, Witold Tomczak, wrote to the Prime Minister not only demanding Rottenberg’s dismissal but also suggesting she should curate in Israel rather than in Poland. Macuga’s image is a timely reminder of cultural vandalism and censorship as well anti-semitism in Poland, alongside the work of Yael Bartana.
LaToya Ruby Frazier is an artist and a militant; her photos combine intimate views of her relation with her parents and grandparents with the history of the Afro-American community of Braddock, Pennsylvania, where she grew up and where her family still live.She reports upon the decline of this steel-producing town, which was once prosperous and where the local population today is devastated by poverty, unemployment and health problems linked to pollution. The town has currently closed the hospital which increases unemployment and makes access to treatment complicated for the residents of one of the most polluted towns in the USA.Through this documentary work with ties to the intimate, she goes beyond the basic information to touch upon the human consequences of these tragedies.Frazier's images are embedded in the history of the United States of America and they highlight what is unspoken in the social landscape. Her work is focused on the tragedy of Braddock, a town hit by a slow decay and increasing poverty (steel factories closing, crack epidemic, community debacle, disappearance of shops and urban equipment).The captioned photographs of protests and advertising are printed with a textured effect, burnt-looking, recalling the “Rusty Belt” nickname for the steel factories of this region.The portfolio reports on a new wave of devastation, that of a workers' culture in the process of disappearing.In 2009, the Levi’s brand chose the town as the backdrop of its new advertising campaign, focusing on the figure of the “new pioneer”.Frazier mixes photographs of this campaign with others of the town and its protests against the closure and destruction of the hospital in a form of critique of the utilization of this town and its population by Levi’s.The juxtaposition of these images documents and denounces the violent and jarring economic ambiguity of the commercial dynamic that feeds off a tragedy and a decrepit context. The proceeds of the sale of these artworks will go to the activist groups fighting for the reconstruction of the hospital.
It is with the eye of a sculptor that Charlotte Moth records modernist architecture and its copies which she encounters during her trips and residences. Photographed in black and white, these architectures seem empty, out of time, and open to any interpretation.The artist creates a classification of her species of spaces, called the “Travelogue”, which is both artwork and tool since it allows her to ceaselessly generate new works. The “Travelogue” creates a toing and froing between images, experiences, interpretations and histories. Moth's work proposes a semiotic and phenomenological approach to space that engenders new interpretations and encourages a thinking process concerning the history of forms.The Kadist collection owns her film The Absent Forms, shot on the rue Mallet-Stevens. Acquiring these silver gelatin photographs (Willa Niespodzianka and ...this was the plane—the variously large and accentuated, but always exactly determined plane—from which everything would be made...) constitutes a coherent ensemble.As in the film, the artist used black and white, not to provoke nostalgia but with a will to convene the creative spirit of the places she records and is inspired by.There are here certain recurring motifs present in her oeuvre; such as the flat object which offers a surface for projections and interpretations, like a screen. The formal associations suggest new interpretations, the opposition between empty and full forms connect her photographic practice to that of the sculptor.But these photographs are also like rumors that the artist is propagating. While she was invited on residency in Poland, the artist discovered an abandoned modernist villa and photographed it, then when she returned to continue her investigation, she discovered that it has been destroyed. Several temporalities are at work in this image, since the artist revisits landscape photography which is at once mental and fictional, present and absent.As for the image of the famous empty plinth in the Parc des Buttes Chaumont, it is also part of a certain mythology of the city, “from which everything would be made”.
It is with the eye of a sculptor that Charlotte Moth records modernist architecture and its copies which she encounters during her trips and residences. Photographed in black and white, these architectures seem empty, out of time, and open to any interpretation.The artist creates a classification of her species of spaces, called the “Travelogue”, which is both artwork and tool since it allows her to ceaselessly generate new works. The “Travelogue” creates a toing and froing between images, experiences, interpretations and histories. Moth's work proposes a semiotic and phenomenological approach to space that engenders new interpretations and encourages a thinking process concerning the history of forms.The Kadist collection owns her film The Absent Forms, shot on the rue Mallet-Stevens. Acquiring these silver gelatin photographs (...this was the plane—the variously large and accentuated, but always exactly determined plane—from which everything would be made... and Willa Niespodzianka) constitutes a coherent ensemble. As in the film, the artist used black and white, not to provoke nostalgia but with a will to convene the creative spirit of the places she records and is inspired by.There are here certain recurring motifs present in her oeuvre; such as the flat object which offers a surface for projections and interpretations, like a screen. The formal associations suggest new interpretations, the opposition between empty and full forms connect her photographic practice to that of the sculptor.But these photographs are also like rumors that the artist is propagating. While she was invited on residency in Poland, the artist discovered an abandoned modernist villa and photographed it, then when she returned to continue her investigation, she discovered that it has been destroyed. Several temporalities are at work in this image, since the artist revisits landscape photography which is at once mental and fictional, present and absent.As for the image of the famous empty plinth in the Parc des Buttes Chaumont, it is also part of a certain mythology of the city, “from which everything would be made”.
Since 2005, Charles Avery has devoted his practice to the perpetual description of a fictional island. Replete with its own population and constantly shifting topography, Avery’s intricately conceived project amounts to an ever-expanding body of drawings, sculptures, installations and texts which evince the island. Exhibited incrementally these heterogeneous elements serve as terms within the unifying structure of the island – as multiple emissions of an imaginary state, and as a meditation on the central themes of philosophy and the problems of art-making. The ultimate destination of Avery’s epic venture is the documentation of this ‘heterotopia’ in a book of many volumes. Avery is one of a number of artists who have promoted a return to narrative. The Kadist Foundation Collection also owns a fictive map by Avery.This drawing is a medium-sized work in which Avery depicts an event taking place on the island close to the Labour Exchange down by the port. In essence he depicts a dance-off between waiters and itinerant workers who are looking for work on the island. The idea comes from his own experience as a 16 year-old in Italy where he met a Spaniard who had danced his way from Spain to Italy, earning money in the street by doing so. Avery teamed up with him and became the hat carrier, money collector. Avery sees this kind of drawing as a companion to the large architectural views that show the principal buildings on the island and distant views of people. It is as though he is zooming in on a particular incident caught at the edge of a camera lens. The island is of course fictional but it is nevertheless a credible place, a little like Second Life, where characters act out their lives. In fact people are beginning to use the scenarios in their teaching work as though they were real and exemplary of certain true life situations. If there is a fantastical element at all it is redolent of Jabberwocky, Lewis Carroll’s celebrated poem, which has been an important text for Avery. Avery is creating a world which could well be a place on this planet, an island off the coast of his native Scotland, for example, which can be visited by tourists (essentially the role of the viewer) or by those who want to stay there indefinitely (the role of the characters in the drawings).
In a society saturated by images, Eric Baudelaire is interested in political events that have not found their representation. For the film The Anabasis of May and Fusako Shigenobu, Masao Adachi and 27 Years without Images, Baudelaire conducted research on 1970s Japanese cinema and more specifically on Wakamatsu and Masao Adachi's filmography. In 1971, as the two legendary filmmakers of Japanese Nouvelle Vague were on their way home from a presentation at the Cannes festival, they stopped in Beirut, where their thinking concerning the image took the form of political activism. They made a documentary on the Palestinian struggle. Three years later, Masao Adachi became the writer for the Japanese Red Army Faction, which was linked to the PFLP (Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine). In this film, the 30 year-long journey of the Japanese Red Army is told by two of its protagonists. As the daughter of the founder of the group, May Shigenobu was a close witness. She was born in hiding in Lebanon and only experienced being in Japan from the age of 27, after the arrest of her mother. Adachi was the theorist of fûkeiron, the movement of filmmakers who shot landscape in order to reveal the omnipresent structures of power. There are no images of his 27 years of voluntary exile since what he filmed in Lebanon was destroyed during the war on three occasions. Therefore The Anabasis of May and Fusako Shigenobu, Masao Adachi and 27 Years without Images is structured through speech, witness accounts and memory (or false memories). The stories are intertwined and reveal complex rapports between militancy, terrorism and cinema.Thus one wonders whether, once Adachi sided with the armed struggle, he might have continued to think like a director, planning the airplane highjacking or hostage-taking as scripts where actors would be the militants and where television cameras replaced those of the filmmaker. More broadly, this film considers the role of art and the powerlessness that could lead to the shift from an artistic practice to armed struggle. It follows the shift from a cinematographic image to that of propaganda, and armed propaganda, before concentrating on the reconstruction of missing images. 
This video installation was made for the exhibition "Journey to the West" held in January 2012 in New Delhi, where a group of curators invited six Japanese artists to produce a work to be made around the relationship between Japan and India. In the framework of this exhibition, Meiro Koizumi decided to use a controversial book of modern Japanese history The Judgement of Justice Radhabinod Pal, as material for his work. Koizumi created a performance combining the paradoxical context of this book with monstrous representation of Indian gods. The central performer had to read the Judgement of Pal as seriously as possible, while two other performers on the side had to make a comedy out of the situation. It is Koizumi's attempt to create a new god-like mythical figure that embodies the contradiction inscribed within modern Japanese history and identity. The context of this work has much to do with the trial held in Tokyo right after the war to judge Japanese war criminals. Judge Pal was the only Asian judge to be invited to the trial, and he was the only one that found all the defendants not guilty.
Based on historical prophecies and fantasy, he creates apocalyptic scenarios that envision an enigmatic world plagued by social, political and environmental upheaval. Untitled (2012) is an intricate watercolor drawing of a child sitting cross-legged with their head stuck inside a giant mask resembling a duck head covered with eyes. The image resembles a scene snatched from a work of science fiction or a surreal dream. Rojas' work creates an ominous vision of the future, which are captivating warning signs.
Downed Wood Standing Coiled (2011) consists of two sculptures inextricably linked to one another. In each, pieces of driftwood are bundled together vertically and entwined with rope which cascades to the floor in a tightly wound coil. Placed side by side on the ground these sculptures anthropomorphize into partners who are literally and figuratively bound. Gracefully composed and energetically poised in relation to one another, the sculptures become symbolic of human relationships and our desire for connection.
Commissioned for the 2012 Whitney Biennial, Hearsay of the Soul is Werner Herzog's ode to the landscapes of 17th century Dutch artist Hercules Segers. The work is a 4 channel digital projection of Segers' artworks that is paired with the emotive music of Dutch musician Ernst Reijseger. Herzog sees the vast landscapes of Segers' paintings and prints as powerful representations of our own interior worlds, resounding with feelings of anger, joy, fear and loneliness.
The title Untitled Passport II was first used by Felix Gonzalez-Torres in a piece featuring hundreds of small booklets, each containing sequenced photographs of a bird soaring against an open sky. Stacked in the shape of a cube and available for visitors to take, Gonzalez-Torres’s passports did not offer citizenship, but instead invited participation in a sense of borderless being. Jacobsen’s piece, Untitled (Untitled Passport II) is a diptych depicting two page spreads from Gonzalez- Torres’s booklet. The perfect graphite renderings freeze the book with its pages splayed, wings perpetually open. But the boundless generosity of Gonzalez-Torres’s piece finds a limit in Jacobsen’s unique (copied) original; these images are behind glass, their meanings visibly internalized by the artist, whose notes appear in pencil around the edges.
Do Not Pass Go depicts Richie Rich, “the poor little rich boy” of the 1950s comic strip. As his steel outline gleefully makes off with a bag of money and a stack of bills, another icon of affluent America, Uncle Pennybags (otherwise known as the Monopoly Man), is crushed underfoot between two heavy blocks. Behind them lies a broken piggy bank, depicted upside down with eyes x-ed out. The scene represents the collision of two fictional worlds--both geared toward children--in which being well moneyed is an assumptive aspiration. With the free market unleashed, these two nostalgic, seemingly innocuous figures are made to compete against one another, and the very competition begins to read as sinister.
In Man and Pet (2012), two benign ceramic figures smile sweetly upward. The man wraps his small companion in a hug, his arms extending in round arcs all the way to his feet. Though the characters’ expressions are strikingly similar— suggestive of Rockwellian Americana—the pet seems somewhat more genial and familiarly fuzzy than his owner, whose saurian pupils lend his face a reptilian air that belies his warm grin.
Poised with tool in hand, The Carpenter (2012) reaches forward toward his workbench. The sculpture inexplicitly references the most famous member the profession, the subject of scores of parables and tens of thousands of artworks. Here, though, his stilted pose confounds Messianic masculinity; drips of ochre glaze render his handiwork and hammer equally soft. Woodshop, table, man, and floor are lacquered together, spilling into one another and freezing the protagonist vulnerably in place.
Be Oblivion in Disconnect (2011) is a sculpture and an intervention. Two cardboard boxes house white neon letters that collectively have the potential to spell 'Be Oblivion.' The dismembered phrase is rendered powerless in its present state and instead power is placed with the viewer to reconstruct it. Two iconic wooden pallets are painted white and repurposed as pedestals for the work, thus removing them from their circulation as carriers of commodity and disguised in a subdued hue. The simple cardboard boxes are also discarded shipping materials. The words 'Be Oblivion' in themselves are a command to fade away into obscurity. This simple phrase resonates as a harbinger of defeat. The provocative installation is a pointed monument to our collective loss of power, be it in politics, commerce, war, international relations or social issues. Wheat asks us to resurrect the phrase 'Be Oblivion,' contemplate it and see if it is time for an insurrection.
The photography series are form the three-channel film installation Empire’s Borders II – Western Enterprise, Inc. (2010) which takes its point of departure of the political context of the 1950s Cold War when US interests in Taiwan overlapped with the Chinese civil war. Cooperating with the Kuomintang, the American CIA established what was called Western Enterprises, an agency whose main tasks included training an Anti-Communist National Salvation Army (NSA) for a surprise attack on communists in Mainland China, and establishing Taiwan as a base for anti-Communist operations in Southeast Asia. Narrated from the point of the view of the artist’s father, once a member of (NSA), the project interweaves the personal experience with historical events. The restaged ruins of the old Western Enterprise base have a haunting atmosphere, silently recounting the complex history of Taiwan-US relations in an era of global border tension and conflicts.
The photography series are form the three-channel film installation Empire’s Borders II – Western Enterprise, Inc. (2010) which takes its point of departure of the political context of the 1950s Cold War when US interests in Taiwan overlapped with the Chinese civil war. Cooperating with the Kuomintang, the American CIA established what was called Western Enterprises, an agency whose main tasks included training an Anti-Communist National Salvation Army (NSA) for a surprise attack on communists in Mainland China, and establishing Taiwan as a base for anti-Communist operations in Southeast Asia. Narrated from the point of the view of the artist’s father, once a member of (NSA), the project interweaves the personal experience with historical events. The restaged ruins of the old Western Enterprise base have a haunting atmosphere, silently recounting the complex history of Taiwan-US relations in an era of global border tension and conflicts.
Marcelo Cidade's sculpture Abuso de Poder (Abuse of Power) (2010) is a mousetrap elegantly crafted in Carrara marble. Originally made for the Carrara Biennale in 2010, the work recreates the iconic form replete with a piece of cheese waiting for the unsuspecting victim. In this sculpture, Cicade challenges the viewer’s participation and intervention into the artistic object. As the title suggests, the work is also a commentary on the traps that are set for us politically, economically and socially and questions how free we really are.
Adição por subtração (2010) is an intervention into the white cube with both beautiful and intimidating results. The installation is a large rectangular frame created out of shards of clear and colored glass that protrude from the wall. The use of glass fragments is reminiscent of Robert Smithson's sculpture Map of Glass (Atlantis) (1969), yet the concerns of Adição por subtração (2010) are very different. The work delineates an interior space and draws the viewer's attention through the use of aggressive materials, yet the artwork is empty. What is added is ultimately subtracted in the work, since both the "artwork" and the void of the gallery space remain equal.
Periquitos (Parakeets) (2005) is a cartoon like giant television with a screen made of four vertical strips of blue, yellow, green and red acetate. There is a recurring figure on the screen, which is taken from a photograph of the artist at the age of six. The acetate references a practice from Marepe's region where owners of black-and-white televisions would attach colored acetate to their screen in order to see images in color.
War Footage is a series of wall-mounted works composed of 16mm film leader, tightly bound to flag-shaped panels by the artist. In their monochrome simplicity -- some white, some black, one red -- they bring to mind Rauschenberg's minimalist paintings from the 50's; the shape and repetitive figuration bring to mind Jasper John's later flag paintings. Modifications to the blank leader – holes, letters, random dots and dashes – were created by the machinations of previous Ancalmo pieces.
Efectos de Familia is a series of 13 videos that transform by dramatization an array of abusive events derived from Aragon's family's history and involvement with organized crime. Each episode is an action performed by younger members of his family – two cousins, a nephew, and his younger brother. One boy is shot to death inside a pick-up truck, two endure a brick-carrying competition, and another digs his grave, and so on, making the project a kind of education of masculinity, but also the forced corruption their family has endured under the violent pursuit of power. Yet understood from the broader context of Mexico, under the disaster of its national economy, the artistic use of the reenactment process is as much about the individual and the ability of Aragon's youngest family members to avoid such corruption again in the future, as it is about a collective social condition of survival and endurance.
This is not in Spanish looks at the ways in which the Chinese population in Mexico navigates the daily marginalization they encounter there. The neon translates as “this is not in Spanish,” making reference to both the famous Rene Magritte painting “Ceci n'est pas une pipe" as well as signs posted in the windows of Chinese establishments in Mexico.
The two works in the Kadist collection, Observador Pasivo and 3600 besos por hora by Diaz are culled from a vast compilation of videos and performances for the camera. These are very successful in transcending the local into the global and/or universal. Memory, surveillance, and the routine and/or familiar, life in terms of both the political life and the social collective life shared by the constant reminder of the shut-off island psychological landscape.
The two works in the Kadist collection, Observador Pasivo and 3600 besos por hora by Diaz are culled from a vast compilation of videos and performances for the camera. These are very successful in transcending the local into the global and/or universal. Memory, surveillance, and the routine and/or familiar, life in terms of both the political life and the social collective life shared by the constant reminder of the shut-off island psychological landscape.
