17 variazioni su temi proposti per una pura ideologia fonetica (Seventeen variations on proposed themes for a pure phonetic ideology), Burri's first illustrated book, includes three original works: a painted cover incorporating gold leaf; a pen-and-ink drawing, also with gold leaf; and a collage made of a partially burnt fragment of fabric. Each copy in the edition of ninety-nine included unique variants of each of these elements; this is the only copy known to have survived intact (others were taken apart and the works sold separately). Trained as a doctor, Burri started working as an artist after his release from an American prisoner-of-war camp in 1946. Influenced in part by Jean Fautrier, he began incorporating worn-out clothes, wood, plastic, and other nontraditional materials into his paintings, including his signature burlap. The acquisition of this rare book strengthens the Museum's holdings of Burri's work, and, moreover, is a unique addition to the Museum's collection of illustrated books.
A 1901 catalogue of furniture by the architect and designer Baillie Scott advised clients to throw out all the furniture left to them by the previous generation rather than "perpetuate the memory of the departed in preserving these gloomy and silent witnesses of their bad taste." In the spirit of the British Arts and Crafts movement, most of Baillie Scott's pieces, including this table, were made of unadorned oak, reflecting the inspiration of vernacular sources. His preference for brightly painted furniture is evident in the schemes he submitted to the "house for an art lover" competition that same year (on display on this platform). Although based in England, Baillie Scott had many admirers in continental Europe, and executed commissions for the Grand Duke of Hesse in Darmstadt, Germany, and for Queen Marie of Romania.
Abakanowicz's massive fiber works fuse weaving with sculpture and installation to create objects with a disquieting and visceral presence. Yellow Abakan's form is determined by the drape of the textile, which is coarsely woven from sisal, an industrial plant fiber used to make rope. The scarred seams and anatomical appendages lend the work a figural quality, something Abakanowicz continues to explore in large-scale sculptures cast in hardened fiber. Yellow Abakan  was among works by several Polish weavers included in Wall Hangings, a 1969 MoMA exhibition showcasing the work of international contemporary fiber artists. Abakanowicz and many artists of the Eastern Bloc were drawn to craft and textile traditions as expressive mediums less regulated by Soviet censorship.
A banal image of a single paperclip captioned with the equally unremarkable word "AND" might initially suggest a straightforward parallel between the grammatical conjunction, which links ideas, and the device that affixes pieces of paper together. However, in this case the ubiquitous word is taken from Francisco de Goya's scathing titles for his Disasters of War print series (begun in 1810), decrying the horrors of violence. Other image–word pairings in Baldessari's Goya series include a knife accompanied by the phrase "AN ARM AND A LEG" and an empty bowl with the terse declaration, "THIS IS BAD." Baldessari is less interested in logical relationships between image and text than with "what conceptual leaps people can make from one bit of information to another and how they can fill the space."
Ablaze in the Paris night, the Maison de la Publicité broadcasts information along the Champs Elysées. The slender building is a pure media machine. The diagonally braced steel grid of the facade acts as the support structure for graphic material; inside, advertising agencies in rental offices produce logos, signage, and sales pitches, and a vast hall hosts public media events. The building itself is a collage: the graphic cladding produced inside, installed by a rooftop crane, constantly updates the exterior. The photomontage uses a picture of Paris at night to envision the architectures nocturnal transformation. The facade's dynamic assemblage of signs and cultural expressions represents an early fascination with media and the architecture it might inspire.
Abramovic and Atlas collaborated to create this short video of a dramatic autobiographical performance, in which Abramovic delivers a monologue that commences with the story of her birth in 1946 and traces her personal narrative through a series of brief memories marked by year. In a detached voice, she recites statements about her childhood in the former Yugoslavia, her family, her performance work, and her collaboration with the artist Ulay, which had ended the year before.The video begins with Abramovic dressed in a dark suit descending concrete stairs. It is intercut with symbolic and mythological images of her vigorously scrubbing her feet with a brush and close-ups of her wearing a Medusa-like crown of slithering snakes. The soundtrack is composed of Abramovic's voice, the sound of a brush aggressively scrubbing, and a woman singing an aria.SSS was the first of several collaborations between Abramovic and Atlas, and it was an antecedent for their performance piece The Biography (1992). In both charged performances, Abramovic and Atlas use autobiography as a diachronic structuring principle in an investigation of identity as defined by personal history. At the end of SSS, Abramovic says, "time past, time present," suggesting a dissolution of the temporal boundaries between an individual biography, the artist's performance, and the viewer's engagement.
According to Alex Katz, appearance and style are the subjects of his artworks, which are decidedly cool, aloof, and detached faces and figures. These individuals serve as matrices for his explorations of scale, color, light, form, and composition. Yet the often distant expressions of their faces—primarily depicting family members, friends, and art-world figures he knows personally—combined with his selective documentation of their up-to-date clothes and hairstyles, make him, de facto, an interpreter of contemporary life. For Katz, printmaking has served as both an opportunity to refine his imagery and as a springboard to further work. In the 1950s, he made linoleum cuts and stencils that influenced his move into collage and his use of flat, static colors in his paintings. Since the mid-1960s, he has collaborated with numerous printers and publishers to produce more than two hundred prints in a variety of techniques. The aquatints shown here are from an illustrated book containing fourteen portraits of second-generation New York School poets, interleaved with a poem about contemporary life contributed by each. These poets are among Katz's circle of friends, who became acquainted at parties, poetry readings, and art openings in the 1960s and 1970s. For this project he first painted the portraits on aluminum in a hybrid format he called "cutouts" that silhouettes the figures. He then traced the outlines of these portraits onto copperplates, cutting them out to serve as shaped printing surfaces. The soft tonal quality of the aquatint technique he used lends an intimacy to his characterizations, while the book format allowed Katz to juxtapose each portrait with that poet's verse.
According to Giacometti, The Palace at 4 a.m. relates to "a period of six months passed in the presence of a woman who, concentrating all life in herself, transported my every moment into a state of enchantment. We constructed a fantastical palace in the night—a very fragile palace of matches. At the least false movement a whole section would collapse. We always began it again." The woman in question is often identified as one of Giacometti's lovers, known only by her first name, Denise. In the summer of 1933 Giacometti told André Breton, the leader of the Surrealist movement, that he was incapable of making anything that did not have something to do with her.
According to Oldenburg, this relief recalls his “vision of a pair of red teenage tights seen in the wind at the corner of Avenue A and 14th Street.” The work refers to this display of merchandise, but its jagged edges and the single number 9 also lend it the appearance of a torn advertisement. Oldenburg often tore images of commercial goods from magazines and newspapers as source material for his sculptures, which he described in 1961 as “rips out of reality,” fusing the printed advertisement with three-dimensional reality. Looking back, in 1970 the artist explained, “Vision at that time, for me, was assumed flatter, and what was seen, taken as a plane surface, like a film, mirror, or newspaper. Thus an advertisement or part of one, ripped from a newspaper, was taken to correspond to a glance at the plane of vision.”
According to the designers, over three hundred million students across the globe are endangered daily because many schools in earthquake-prone areas are not structurally sound enough to absorb the impact of an earthquake. While students are often instructed to sit beneath tables or desks in case of an earthquake, current classroom furniture can trap or fatally crush children. The EPT, on the other hand, can tolerate diverse “collapse scenarios.” It can be used for both shelter and protection during an earthquake and after: when lined up end to end, several tables create a “tunnel,” allowing safe passage out of an unsafe buildings and access for rescue teams. The table can be used for most everyday classroom activities, and it is lightweight: two children can pick it up and move it on their own.
Accounts by several Dadaists describe how Arp made "chance collages" such as this one: by tearing paper into pieces, dropping them onto a larger sheet, and pasting each scrap wherever it happened to fall. The relatively ordered appearance of Arp's collages suggests, however, that the artist did not fully relinquish artistic control. Skeptical of reason in the wake of World War I, Arp and other Dadaists turned to chance as an antidote.
A chair sits alongside a photograph of a chair and a dictionary definition of the word chair. Perhaps all three are chairs, or codes for one: a visual code, a verbal code, and a code in the language of objects, that is, a chair of wood. But isn't this last chair simply . . . a chair? Or, as Marcel Duchamp asked in his Bicycle Wheel of 1913, does the inclusion of an object in an artwork somehow change it? If both photograph and words describe a chair, how is their functioning different from that of the real chair, and what is Kosuth's artwork doing by adding these functions together? Prodded to ask such questions, the viewer embarks on the basic processes demanded by Conceptual art."The art I call conceptual is such because it is based on an inquiry into the nature of art," Kosuth has written. "Thus, it is . . . a working out, a thinking out, of all the implications of all aspects of the concept 'art,' . . . Fundamental to this idea of art is the understanding of the linguistic nature of all art propositions, be they past or present, and regardless of the elements used in their construction." Chasing a chair through three different registers, Kosuth asks us to try to decipher the subliminal sentences in which we phrase our experience of art.
A classic of avant-garde cinema, Entr'acte was made as an intermission piece for the Ballets Suédois production of Relâche, a Dada theater work that premiered in Paris in December of 1924. The ballet's director, Francis Picabia, gave René Clair a short scenario around which to build the film, and Erik Satie composed an original score to accompany it, but the finished work is "pure" cinema—the individual shots and the connections between them resulting in what Clair described as "visual babblings." Key figures of the contemporary Parisian art world appear in the film in absurd comic cameos, including Man Ray, Marcel Duchamp, Jean Borlin (director of the Ballets Suédois), Georges Auric, Picabia, and Clair himself. As Picabia declared, Entr'acte "respects nothing except the right to roar with laughter."
A cofounder of the Judson Dance Theater in 1962, Hay was heavily involved in emerging performance art and avant-garde dance in the 1960s, and these interests carried over to his work in more traditional media. To create Ground Drawing the artist saturated a piece of cotton cellulose paper with liquid, then allowed it to dry  over a patch of ground in Venice,California, transferring the earth's bumps and irregularities to its surface. He then painstakingly traced each indentation, visually emphasizing the earth's physical unevenness and indicating the precise degree of each bump's incline. Hay's intense focus on an anonymous patch of ground draws our attention to the intricacies of the easily overlooked and ephemeral.
A. Conger Goodyear[John Parkinson III. Son of Elizabeth Bliss Parkinson]Mrs. Elizabeth Bliss Parkinson. July 1966. [From A. Conger Goodyear]The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift of Mrs. Bliss Parkinson, 1968
A continuous metal lattice defines the main volume of Nelson's Suspended House, above which sits the roof, supported by a large steel frame. A simple concrete and glass-block volume intersects the mesh enclosure, creating a mezzanine and roof terrace. The house's open structural cage was a daring architectural experiment using the modernist concept of the free plan. Enclosures for private spaces are suspended from the steel frame and connected by ramps. All remaining open space is given over to the display of art, which, as with Theo van Doesburg's Café Aubette (1927), also exhibited here, is integral to the architectural concept. Nelson, who was closely connected to the modern art movement in the 1930s, invited Alexander Calder, Joan Miró, and Fernand Léger to decorate this model with scaled versions of their artwork. Wassily Kandinsky said of Nelson's creative oeuvre, "His work is a synthesis of everything we attempted to do."
Acquired by Alfred Hess (1879-1931), Erfurt, before 1930 [1]; by inheritance to Tekla Hess (1884- 1968); on loan to Carnegie Institute, Pittsburgh, 1933 [2]; on consignment from Tekla Hess to Curt Valentin Gallery, New York, 1954 [3]; on consignment to Justin Thannhauser, New York, 1955 [4]; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York (Gift of Mr. and Mrs. Werner E. Josten), 1956. [1] Martin Urban, Emil Nolde: Catalogue Raisonné of the Oil-Paintings, vol. 2, London: Sotheby's Publications, 1990, p. 117, no. 735.[2] Ibid. Included in the exhibition Thirty-First Annual International Exhibition of Paintings, Carnegie Institute, Pittsburgh, October 19-December 10, 1933, no. 336.[3] Letter Tekla Hess, York, England to Jane Wade, Curt Valentin Gallery, New York, October 27, 1954, Curt Valentin Papers, III.B."H." The Museum of Modern Art Archives, New York. [4] Letter Jane Wade, Curt Valentin Gallery, New York to Justin Thannhauser, New York, September 12, 1955, Curt Valentin Papers, III.B."H." The Museum of Modern Art Archives, New York.
Acquired by Katherine S. Dreier, West Redding and Milford, CT, 1922 [1]; bequeathed to The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1953. [1] Per Vivian E. Barnett. Kandinsky Watercolours: Catalogue Raisonné. Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University Press, 1992, no. 329. Probably acquired from the artist. See also Vivian E. Barnett and Armin Zweite, eds. Kandinsky, kleine Freuden: Aquarelle und Zeichnungen, Munich: Prestel, 1992, no. 22.
Acquired by Katherine S. Dreier, West Redding and Milford, CT, 1922 [1]; bequeathed to The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1953. [1] Per Vivian E. Barnett. Kandinsky Watercolours: Catalogue Raisonné. Ithaca, N.Y: Cornell University Press, 1992, no. 354. Probably acquired from the artist. See also Vivian E. Barnett and Armin Zweite, eds. Kandinsky, kleine Freuden: Aquarelle und Zeichnungen, Munich: Prestel, 1992, no. 29.
Acquired by the McCrory Corporation (Meshulam Riklis) by 1979 [1]; The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1983 (The Riklis Collection of McCrory Corporation).[1] Rotzler, Willy, ed. Constructivism and the Geometric Tradition: Selections from the McCrory Corporation Collection. Buffalo: Albright-Knox Art Gallery, 1979 (no. 112).
Acquired from the artist by Arthur Rosin (1879-1974), Berlin and New York [1]; by inheritance to Karen Gutmann (his daughter); given to Harry Bober (1915-1988), New York [2]; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York through Alice Adam, Ltd., Chicago, 1990 (Gift of Ronald S. Lauder).[1] Collection file, Department of Drawings, The Museum of Modern Art, New York.[2] Ibid.
Acquired from the artist by Filippo Tommaso Marinetti, Rome, c. 1914 [1]; Marinetti Estate, Rome, 1944; sold to Leonard Hutton, New York, c. 1970 [2]; sold to the McCrory Corporation (Meshulam Riklis), September 17, 1971 [3]; The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1983 (The Riklis Collection of McCrory Corporation).[1] Ingrid Hutton, "The Leonard Hutton Galleries' Involvement with Russian Avant-Garde Art," Art Journal vol. 41, no.3 (1981), pp. 213. Included in Exposizione Libera Futurista Internazionale, Galleria Futurista, Rome, April-May 1914, no. 2 (La fabbrica e il ponte).[2] Ibid. Included in the exhibition Russian Avantgarde 1908-1922, Leonard Hutton Galleries, New York, October 16-December 18, 1971, no. 109.[3] Collection files, Department of Painting and Sculpture, The Museum of Modern Art, New York.
Acquired from the artist by Galerie Bernheim-Jeune, July 13, 1907 [1]; purchased out of the Salon d'Automne by Leo [and Gertrude] Stein, Paris, fall 1907 and owned jointly until possibly February 1914 [2]; to Galerie Bernheim-Jeune, Lausanne, November 1914 [3]; to Marius de Zayas (1880-1961), New York, by 1919 [4]; sold to John Quinn (1870-1924), New York, April 21, 1920 [5]; Estate of John Quinn, 1924; sold to A. Conger Goodyear (1877-1964), Buffalo, N.Y., January 1926 [6]; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1962 (Gift of A. Conger Goodyear in honor of Alfred H. Barr, Jr.).[1] See letter Henri Matisse to Félix Fénéon, qtd. in Janet Bishop, Cécile Debray, and Rebecca A. Rabinow, eds., The Steins Collect: Matisse, Picasso, and the Parisian Avant-Garde., exh. cat. San Francisco: San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, 2011, no. 143.[2] It was previously assumed that the painting was owned by Michael and Sarah Stein. The following documents, however, qtd. in Bishop et al. 2011, no. 143, confirm Leo and Gertrude Stein's ownership: Exh. cat.  Salon d'Automne, Paris, October 1-October 22, 1907 (no. 757bis: La Musique [esquisse]); copy/draft of letter Henri Matisse to Félix Fénéon, July 8, 1907.[3] See Bishop et al. 2011, no. 143, ft. 4; p. 456, ft, +25.[4] Included in Exhibition of Paintings by Courbet, Manet, Degas, Renoir, Cézanne, Seurat, Matisse, M. de Zayas Gallery, New York, November  17-December  6, 1919 (no. 20: Matisse, Music; repr.).[5] Purchased for $1,100. See Benjamin L. Reid, The Man from New York: John Quinn and His Friends, New York: Oxford University Press, 1968, p. 471.[6] See “The Noble Buyer:” John Quinn, Patron of the Avant Garde, exh. cat. Washington, D.C.: Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, Smithsonian Institution, June 15-September 4, 1978), no. 46.
Acquired from the artist by Galerie Kahnweiler, Paris, 1912 [1]; sold to John Quinn (1870-1924), New York, [1913] [2]; Estate of John Quinn, New York, 1924; sold to Cornelius J. Sullivan and Mary Quinn Sullivan (1877-1939), New York, by 1926] [3]; acquired through Parke-Bernet Galleries, New York by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, December 1939 (Abby Aldrich Rockefeller Fund, purchased in memory of Mrs. Cornelius J. Sullivan) [4].[1] Second Post-Impressionist Exhibition, Grafton Galleries, London, October 5-December 31, 1912, p. 25, no. 13, repr.: "Derain, La fenêtre sur le parc, Lent by M. Kahnweiler." Exhibited at the International Exhibition of Modern Art (Armory Show), February 17-March 15, 1913, no. 344. Lender: "M. Henry Kahnweiler."[2] Included in the Loan Exhibition of Impressionist and Post-Impressionist Paintings, The Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, May 3 to September 15, 1921, no. 41 ("Lent by John Quinn") and the Memorial Exhibition of Representative Works Selected from the John Quinn Collection, Art Center, New York, January 7-30, 1926, no. 18. [3] On loan from Cornelius J. Sullivan to the exhibition Paintings by Modern French and American Artists, July 12-October 14, 1926. See also Painting in Paris, from American collections, The Museum of Modern Art, January 19 to February 16, 1930, p. 24, no. 21: The Window on the Park, "Private Collection, New York."[4] Paintings, Drawings, Sculptures, Prints by Modern Artists. Paintings of Other Schools: The Entire Collection of Mrs. Cornelius J. Sullivan, Parke-Bernet Galleries, New York, December 6-7, 1939, no. 54: The Window on the Park.
Acquired from the artist by Hendricus P. Bremmer (1871-1956), The Hague, 1918 [1]; to Joannes D. Waller (1862-1937), Driebergen [2]; Estate of Joannes D. Waller, 1937 [3]; to Joannes D. Waller, Jr., The Hague / Geneva, c. 1946 [4]. G. David Thompson (1899-1965), Pittsburgh, by 1961 [5]; [Harold Daimond, New York] [6]; to Galerie Beyeler, Basel, by 1964 [7]; to Sidney Janis, New York, 1966 [8]; The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1967 (The Sidney and Harriet Janis Collection).[1] Joop M. Joosten, ed. Piet Mondrian: Catalogue Raisonné of the Work of 1911-1944, New York: Harry N. Abrams, 1998, no. B 91. Included in the 4th exhibition of the Hollandsche Kunstenaarskring, Stedelijk Museum, Amsterdam, March 16-April 7, 1918 [no. 65?].[2] Ibid. Date of acquisition not known.[3] Ibid.[4] Ibid. Date of transfer "c. 1946" per Joosten. Lender to the exhibition Mondriaan, Gemeentemuseum, The Hague, February 10-April 12, 1955. See also Michel Seuphor, Piet Mondrian: Life and Work, New York: Abrams, 1956, p. 382: "J.D. Waller, Jr., The Hague."[5] Not in Joosten 1998. Included in the exhibition Collectie Thompson uit Pittsburgh, Haags Gemeentemuseum, The Hague, February 17-April 9, 1961.[6] Not in Joosten 1998. Per Yves-Alain Bois et al, Piet Mondrian, exh. cat. New York: The Museum of Modern Art et al, 1994, p. 180, no. 76.[7] Included in the exhibition Piet Mondrian, Nov 1964-Jan 1965, no. 35, Galerie Beyeler, Basel. Lender to the exhibition Konstruktive Malerei 1915-1930, Frankfurter Kunstverein, Nov 19, 1966-Jan 8, 1967 (no. 43). Date of acquisition is given as "1966" in Joosten 1998 and "1965" in Bois et al. 1994.[8] Per Joosten 1998 and Bois et al. 1994.
Acquired from the artist by Hendrik van Assendelft (1875-1928), Gouda, the Netherlands, 1914 [1]; by inheritance to his wife, Jacoba van Assendelft-Hoos, Gouda, the Netherlands, 1928 until at least 1946 [2]. E. Polak, Amsterdam/Suzanne Feigel, Basel, 1949 [3]; Sidney and Harriet Janis, New York, by 1951 [4]; The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1967 (The Sidney and Harriet Janis Collection).[1] One of altogether three paintings vam Assendelft purchased at Mondrian's first one-man exhibition, 16 composities van P. Mondrian, Parijs, showing sixteen of his works at Kunsthandel W. Walrecht, The Hague, c. June 15-July 31, 1914. See Robert P. Welsh and Joop M. Joosten, Piet Mondrian: catalogue raisonné, New York: Harry N. Abrams, 1998, vol. II-III, pp. 229-230, B45. See also ibid., p. II-105; p. III-28. Lender to the exhibition Alma, Le Fauconnier en Mondrian, Rotterdamsche Kunstkring, Rotterdam, January 31-February 28, 1915 (no. 63).[2] See Welsh and Joosten 1998, p. 229, B45. The painting was still in the possession of Jacoba van Assendelft-Hoos in 1946: She lent the painting to the memorial exhibition Piet Mondriaan herdenkingstententoonstelling, Stedelijk Museum, Amsterdam, November 6-December 16, 1946 (no. 77).[3] Per Welsh and Joosten 1998, p. 229, B45.[4] Lender to the exhibition 1900-1925: Exhibition of Paintings and Prints presented by the Cincinnati Art Museum as part of the First Cincinnati Biennial Festival of the Arts, Cincinnati Art Museum, February 2-March 4, 1951 (no. 27).
Acquired from the artist by Oskar Reichel (1869-1943), Vienna [1]; Neue Galerie (Otto Kallir), Vienna, by 1935 [2], then Galerie St. Etienne (Otto Kallir), New York; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1954.[1] Per Alfred Weidinger and Alice Strobl, Oskar Kokoschka: die Zeichnungen und Aquarelle 1897-1916, Salzburg: Galerie Welz, 2008, no. 308. Date of acquisition not given.  [2] Ernst Rathenau, Oskar Kokoschka: Handzeichungen, Berlin: Ernst Rathenau Verlag, 1935, no. 10: "Neue Galerie, Wien."
Acquired from the artist by Paul Guillaume, (1891-1934), Paris [1];  Paul Eluard (1895-1952), Paris, by 1926 [2]; [sold back to Paul Guillaume, Paris]; Estate of Paul Guillaume, 1934 [3]; sold to Pierre Loeb (1897-1964), Paris, 1934 [4]; purchased by Pierre Matisse Gallery, New York, August 1935 [5]; purchased by James Thrall Soby (1906-1979), New Canaan, Connecticut, December 1940 [6]; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1969 (Gift of James Thrall Soby). [1] Per Paolo Baldacci, De Chirico: The Metaphysical Period 1888-1919, Boston et al.: Little, Brown and Company 1997, p. 206.  Not in Maurizio Faggiolo dell'Arco, L'opera completa di de Chirico, Milano: Rizzoli, 1984, no. 46.[2] Per Baldacci 1997, p. 206. Not in Faggiolo dell'Arco 1984, no. 46. See letter Paul Eluard to Camille Goemans, August 23, 1926, Archives et Musée de la Littérature, Brussels.[3] Per Baldacci 1997, p. 206. Not in Faggiolo dell'Arco 1984, no. 46. [4] Per Baldacci 1997, p. 206 and Faggiolo dell'Arco 1984, no. 46. Included in the exhibition Thèse, antithèse, synthèse, Kunstmuseum Lucerne, Feb 24-March 31, 1935, no. 17. Lender: Pierre Loeb, Paris.[5] Per Baldacci 1997, p. 206 and Faggiolo dell'Arco 1984, no. 46. See receipt Pierre Matisse to Pierre Loeb, Paris, Pierre Matisse Gallery Archives, box 94, file 42 (Galerie Pierre, 1935). Reproduced in Christian Zervos, Histoire de l'art contemporain, Paris: Cahiers d'art, 1938, p. 387: La Gare Montparnasse, 1914, Coll. Pierre Matisse Gallery, New York. Included in the exhibitions Large Paintings, Eight Moderns, Pierre Matisse Gallery, New York, Jan 14-Feb 8, 1936, no. 1 (Chirico, The Melancholy of Departure, 1914, first showing in America); and Exhibition of Early Paintings: Giorgio de Chirico, Pierre Matisse Gallery, Oct 22-Nov 23, 1940, no. 8 (Melancholy of Departure, 1914).[6] Per Baldacci 1997, p. 206 and Faggiolo dell'Arco 1984, no. 46. Year of purchase published in The James Thrall Soby Collection of Works of Art Pledged or Given to the Museum of Modern Art, exh. cat. New York: M. Knoedler and Company, 1961, p. 33.
Acquired from the artist by Paul Guillaume (1891-1934), Paris [1]; sold to Valentine Gallery (Valentine Dudensing and Pierre Matisse), New York, [May 1926] [2]; sold to Stephen C. Clark (1882-1960), New York, June 1927 [3]; given anonymously to The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1937. [1] Michel Kellermann, André Derain: catalogue raisonné de l'oeuvre peint, vol. 2, Paris: Editions Galerie Schmit, 1992, no. 524: Paysage de Provence, c. 1925.[2] Collection files, Department of Painting and Sculpture, The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Valentine Dudensing Ledger Books, vol. 1 (January 1926-December 1928), p. 46. The Museum of Modern Art Archives, New York.[3] Valentine Dudensing Ledger Books, vol. 1 (January 1926-December 1928), p. 46. The Museum of Modern Art Archives, New York. Included in the Summer Exhibition: Painting and Sculpture, June 15-September 28, 1930, no. 28. Lender: Stephen C. Clark.
Acquired from the artist by Paul Rosenberg (1881-1959), Paris, 1928 [1]; sold to Sidney and Harriet Janis, New York, 1933 [2]; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1967 (The Sidney and Harriet Janis Collection).[1] Reproduced in Eugenio d'Ors, Pablo Picasso, Paris: Éditions des Chroniques du jour, and New York: E. Weyhe, 1930, plate 46: "The Painter with His Models [sic], 1929, P. Rosenberg Coll." Included in the exhibitions Picasso, Braque, Derain, Matisse, Léger, and Laurencin, Galerie Rosenberg, Paris, April-May  1929; and Picasso, Braque, Léger and Laurencin, Galerie Rosenberg, Paris, March-April 1930. On loan from Rosenberg to the exhibitions Picasso, Galeries Georges Petit, Paris,  June 16 - July 30, 1932 (no. 181: L'artiste et son modèle); and Picasso, Kunsthaus Zurich, September 11 - October 30, 1932 (no. 175: Der Künstler und seine Modelle). See Michael C. Fitzgerald, Making Modernism: Picasso and the Creation of the Market for Twentieth-Century Art, New York: Farrar, Straus and Giroux, 1995, pp. 185-188.[2] See Three Generations of Twentieth-Century Art: The Sidney and Harriet Janis Collection of the Museum of Modern Art, New York: The Museum of Modern Art, 1972, p. 210. Janis acquired the painting in exchange for Matisse's Interior at Nice.
Acquired from the artist by Sally Falk (1888-1962), Mannheim, October 3, 1916 [1]; gift to the Kunsthalle Mannheim, August 5, 1921 [2]; removed as "degenerate art" by the Reich Ministry for Public Enlightenment and Propaganda, 1937 [3]; on consignment to Karl Buchholz, Berlin; to Curt Valentin (Buchholz Gallery), New York; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1939 (Abby Aldrich Rockefeller Fund) [4].  [1] Roland Dorn et al., Stiftung und Sammlung Sally Falk, Mannheim: Städtische Kunsthalle, 1994, p. 86. Acquired from the artist at the Kollektivausstellung Wilhelm Lehmbruck, Kunsthalle Mannheim, November 12-December 6, 1916 (no. 4: Knieende). On loan from Falk to the Kunsthalle Mannheim since March 1917.[2] Ibid. Inventory number S 518.[3] EK number 15030: Knieende.[4]  Included in the exhibition Art in Our Time: 10th Anniversary Exhibition, The Museum of Modern Art, May 10-September 30, 1939, no. 270.
Acquired from the artist by Sam Salz (1894-1981), Cologne [1]; Heinrich Kirchhoff (1874-1934), Wiesbaden [2]; [Estate of Heinrich Kirchhoff (Antonie Kirchhoff), Wiesbaden, 1934]. Acquired by Kurt Feldhäusser (1905-1945), Berlin, 1935 [3]; by inheritance to Marie L. Feldhäusser (1876-1967), his mother, Kirchberg and Brooklyn, 1945; sold through Weyhe Gallery, New York to The Museum of Modern Art, New York, May 26, 1949 (Acquired through the Lillie P. Bliss Bequest) [4].[1] Collection files, Department of Painting and Sculpture, The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Included in the exhibition Gemälde und Graphik von Marc Chagall aus den Jahren 1908 bis 1924, Kölnischer Kunstverein, April 1925, no. 16 (Der Geburtstag).[2] Collectors Records, 20 [Kurt Feldhäusser]. The Museum of Modern Art Archives. On loan from Kirchhoff to the exhibition Marc Chagall, Kunsthalle Basel, November 4-December 3, 1933, no. 16 (Der Geburtstag).[3] Collectors Records, 20 [Kurt Feldhäusser]. The Museum of Modern Art Archives[4] Collection files, Department of Painting and Sculpture, The Museum of Modern Art, New York.
Acquired from the artist by Silvia Neumann (Silvia Pizitz), New York, by 1952 [1]; gift to The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1953 [2].[1] Included in the exhibition De Stijl, The Museum of Modern Art, New York, December 16, 1952 - February 15, 1953. Lender: Silvia Neumann.[2] Through Rose Fried Gallery, New York.
Acquired from the artist by the Nationalgalerie, Berlin, 1923 [1]; removed as “degenerate art” by the Reich Ministry for Public Enlightenment and Propaganda, 1937 [2]; on consignment to Karl Buchholz, Berlin, 1939; to Buchholz Gallery (Curt Valentin), New York, by 1940 [3]; sold to Stanley B. (1879-1962) and Helen L. Resor (1886-1964), New York and Greenwich, CT, 1940 [4]; to their son Stanley Resor, New York; The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1955 (Gift of Mr. and Mrs. Stanley Resor). [1] Paul-Klee-Stiftung, Kunstmuseum Bern, eds. Paul Klee: catalogue raisonné. Bern: Benteli and New York: Thames and Hudson, vol. 3 (1999), no. 2950. One of four works the Nationalgalerie acquired from the artist for 40 million M during the inflation of 1923 (see Annegret Janda and Jörn Grabowski, eds., Kunst in Deutschland 1905-1937: Die verlorene Sammlung der Nationalgalerie im ehemaligen Kronprinzen-Palais, exh. cat. Berlin: Staatliche Museen zu Berlin, 1992, no. 229). Included in the exhibition Paul Klee, Nationalgalerie, Kronprinzenpalais, Berlin, February 1923. On view at the Kronprinzen-Palais of the Nationalgalerie, Berlin until 1933 (ibid.). Included in the defamatory exhibition Der Bolschewismus - große antibolschewistische Schau, Deutsches Museum, Munich, November 7, 1936-January 31, 1937 (see Anja Tiedemann, "Auf dem Weg in ein freies Land.  Paul Klees Vokaltuch der Kammersängerin Rosa Silber," Uwe Fleckner, ed., Das verfemte Meisterwerk, Berlin: Akademieverlag, 2009, pp. 177-179).[2] EK number: 16213 (Vokaltuch der Kammersängerin Rosa Silber). Included in the exhibition Degenerate Art, Hofgarten-Arkaden, Munich, July 19-November 30, 1937 and other venues (Berlin, Leipzig, Düsseldorf, Salzburg, Hamburg, Stettin, Weimar).[3] Included in the exhibition Landmarks in Modern German Art, Buchholz Gallery, New York, April 2-27, 1940 (no. 11).[4] Collection files, Department of Painting and Sculpture, The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Included in the exhibition Paul Klee, Buchholz Galleries–Willard Gallery, New York, October 9-November 2, 1940 (no. 27: Lent anonymously).
Acquired from the artist by the Staatliche Kunstsammlungen (Schlossmuseum), Weimar, 1923 [1]; removed as "degenerate art" by the Reich Ministry for Public Enlightenment and Propaganda, Berlin, 1937; on consignment to Karl Buchholz, Berlin, February 20, 1939 [2]; to Curt Valentin, New York; purchased by Philip L. Goodwin (1885 1958), New York, May 3, 1939; The Museum of Modern Art, New York (Philip L. Goodwin Collection), 1958.[1] Andreas Hüneke, ed. Angriff auf die Kunst. Der faschistische Bildersturm vor 50 Jahren. Weimar: Kunstsammlungen, 1988, p. 15. On loan from the "Staatliche Kunstsammlungen Weimar" to the exhibition Deutsche Malerei in den letzten fünfzig Jahren: Ausstellung von Meisterwerken aus öffentlichem und privatem Besitz, Munich: Neue Staatsgalerie, 1924 (no. 94). [2] EK no. 11261: Pflanzen
Acquired from the artist by Willem Wolff Beffie (1880-1950), Amsterdam/Brussels/Brooklyn, 1913 [1]; sold to Nierendorf Gallery, New York, 1940 [2]; acquired by the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, New York, 1946 [3]; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1988 (Gift of Mr. and Mrs. Morton D. May and Mr. and Mrs. Arnold H. Maremont [both by exchange]).[1] Hoberg, Annegret, Franz Marc, and Isabelle Jansen, eds. Franz Marc: The Complete Works. vol. 1. London: Philip Wilson Publishers, 2004, no. 206. See letter Franz Marc to Gabriele Münter, Sindelsdorf, July 23, 1913. On loan from Beffie to the exhibitions Twentieth Century German Art, New Burlington Galleries, London, July 1938 (no. 166, Die Weltenkuh) and Franz Marc, Buchholz Gallery, New York, November 11 - December 7, 1940 (no. 14, Red Cow).[2] Ibid. Reproduced in the exhibition catalogue Forbidden Art in The Third Reich: Paintings by German Artists Whose Work was Banned from Museums and Forbidden to Exhibit, Nierendorf Gallery, New York, October 1945, n.p. [3] Ibid.
Active Object is a painting on canvas wrapped precisely around a long, rectangular piece of wood. Installed perpendicular to the wall, the work is meant to be seen on both sides by the viewer. Because of the active connection it creates between the duration of the gaze and the movement of the body, Active Object is a landmark in the connection of art to phenomenology—the study of objective reality as experienced by the individual. The artist explored the tension between formal stability and instability, conceiving it to be an agent of perceptual activation of the borders and volumes of the visual field. As such, the Active Objects series is not only a milestone in the history of hard–edge abstraction, but also a striking precedent to Minimalism.
Admired as much for its sculptural presence as for its comfort, the Paimio Chair is a tour de force in bentwood that seems to test the limits of plywood manufacturing. The chair's framework consists of two closed loops of laminated wood, forming arms, legs, and floor runners, between which rides the seat—a thin sheet of plywood tightly bent at both top and bottom into sinuous scrolls, giving it greater resiliency. Inspired by Marcel Breuer's tubular-steel Wassily Chair of 1927—28, Aalto chose, instead, native birch for its natural feel and insulating properties, and developed a more organic form.The Paimio Chair, the best-known piece of furniture designed by Aalto, is named for the town in southwestern Finland for which Aalto designed a tuberculosis sanatorium and all its furnishings. Used in the patients' lounge, the angle of the back of this armchair was intended to help sitters breathe more easily.Aalto's bentwood furniture had a great influence on the American designers Charles and Ray Eames and the Finnish-born Eero Saarinen. In 1935 the Artek company was established in Finland to mass-produce and distribute wood furniture designed by Aalto and his wife, Aino. Most of their designs remain in production.
A fashion photograph aims to describe an ideal, one that we, as consumers, might aspire to. It is the creation of an illusion. In this picture, the curved forms—the woman's mouth, her neck, the shape of her hat, her left sleeve and, of course, her beautifully deployed right sleeve—are so exquisitely balanced that we accept as inevitable the photographer's daring cropping of the model's head.Penn came into prominence as a photographer of fashion in 1950. His signature style, at once austere and elegant, swept away the elaborate theatrical trappings of the past. His pictures seemed to embody a new American confidence and taste for clarity in the aftermath of World War II. As times and fashions changed, however, the pictorial economy and rigorous craft of Penn's work—the poise and grace of his pictures—did not. Over the course of half a century, his stubborn pursuit of perfection has indeed given us something to aspire to.
A formative member of the New York School, Barnett Newman established the group's early tenets with the help of Adolph Gottlieb and Mark Rothko. He organized exhibitions and discussion groups, lectured, and wrote about art. His views embraced such fundamental issues as order and chaos, life and death, man and nature, as well as spirituality and metaphysics. His abstract, often monochromatic works that incorporate signature "zips," vertical bands that cut through the picture plane, were influential for the later Minimalists. Throughout his career, Newman experienced periods when he stopped painting altogether. During one such episode, following the death of his brother George in 1960, he was introduced to lithography by a concerned friend, fellow painter Cleve Gray, who thought that working in a new medium might spark Newman's interest. He directed Newman to the Pratt Graphic Art Center, a print workshop loosely affiliated with Brooklyn's Pratt Institute. The Graphic Art Center was available to students as well as established artists looking to experiment with printmaking mediums. Newman made three lithographs at Pratt in 1961, including this Untitled work, which can be viewed in relation to his monumental painting cycle and personal meditation on mortality, The Stations of the Cross: Lema Sabachthani of 1958–66.Newman described himself as being "captivated" by lithography and by the various possibilities offered by different inks and papers. In the final decade of his life, he was an extremely productive printmaker, creating approximately forty editions in a variety of mediums. He worked primarily at Universal Limited Art Editions, Tatyana Grosman's renowned Long Island printmaking studio.
A former architecture student, Erich Heckel founded the artists' group Brücke (Bridge) in Dresden in 1905, together with Fritz Bleyl, Karl Schmidt-Rottluff, and Ernst Ludwig Kirchner. The bold coloring and sharp angularity of his portraits, nudes, bathers, and cabaret performers helped define the German Expressionist aesthetic in painting and printmaking. During his lifetime, Heckel completed more than one thousand prints, the vast majority between 1905 and 1923. He made hundreds of etchings and lithographs, but is most acclaimed for his woodcuts, which display a radical flatness and simplification of form. He created Fränzi Reclining by sawing the woodblock into pieces, inking each part separately, and then reassembling them for printing, a jigsaw-puzzle technique derived from Edvard Munch, the Norwegian painter whose highly experimental approach to printmaking was emulated by Brücke artists. Heckel's model, twelve-year-old Fränzi, was a favorite of the Brücke members; they responded to her awkward poses, so typical of adolescence and so unlike those of conventional models. The exaggerated masklike features of her face were inspired in part by the artist's study of African sculptures at the Dresden Ethnological Museum. After moving from Dresden to Berlin in 1911, along with other Brücke artists, Heckel turned increasingly to themes of melancholy and isolation. By 1913 the Brücke group had disbanded, and in 1915 Heckel went off to war. Portrait of a Man, a gaunt self-portrait created in the difficult months just after the war ended, manifests a psychic weariness that may be interpreted as broadly symbolic of the German people at that time. Technically, it demonstrates Heckel's ongoing eagerness to experiment with printmaking processes. The colored areas were applied to the wood with a brush rather than with the more common ink roller. The thick brushstrokes create a painterly surface that contrasts with the deliberate flatness in his earlier work.
A formidable painter and independent spirit, Richard Diebenkorn remained a resolutely West Coast artist despite the dominance of the New York art scene. He was among the few individuals who navigated between abstract and figurative modes of painting with critical success over the course of his career. Beginning in the late 1940s, Diebenkorn periodically turned to printmaking as a means of reevaluating his creative process and reworking his ideas, eventually completing approximately two hundred prints. Preferring to work in intaglio mediums, he established an important collaborative relationship in the 1960s with printer Kathan Brown at Crown Point Press. In the mid-1950s Diebenkorn began working in a loose figurative style that he developed after abandoning the abstraction for which he had first received attention. In 1966 he embarked on a monumental abstract series that would occupy him for the next twenty years, the approximately one hundred fifty paintings entitled Ocean Park. Named for the Santa Monica neighborhood where he had a studio, the large-scale Ocean Park paintings deal with concerns of space and surface in a luminous palette inspired by the California landscape around him. Despite his inherent abilities as a colorist, Diebenkorn had long resisted using color in his prints, in part because he feared that technical difficulties would prevent him from achieving the results he desired. However, with Brown's encouragement, he began the series Eight Color Etchings in 1980. This group, which includes Large Light Blue, successfully translates the formal concerns, aesthetic sensibility, and luminescent, transparent, layered color of the Ocean Park paintings. Pleased with the results, Diebenkorn continued making color prints in a variety of techniques until his death in 1993.
After a brief but eventful career that embodies the hopes and humiliations of African Americans at mid-twentieth century, the hero of Ralph Ellison's celebrated 1952 novel Invisible Man retreats to a secret basement room on the edge of Harlem. There he patiently composes and reflects upon the story we are about to read. "I am invisible,” he explains, "simply because people refuse to see me."Making pictures out of stores was once the main business of the visual arts. The rising modernist tradition consigned the practice to the margins of advanced art; for most of the past century, "illustration" has been a term of contempt. In this large, richly detailed and thoroughly absorbing photograph, Wall has all but single-handedly reinvented the challenge.The novel's eloquent prologue is short on specifics, except one: the 1,369 lightbulbs that cover the ceiling of the underground lair. Starting with this fantastic detail, Wall scrupulously imagined in his Vancouver studio the concrete form of Ellison's metaphorical space. Ambitiously reviving a forgotten art, he made visible the Invisible Man.
After an appliance has been unpacked, the packaging is usually thrown away. But packaging forms, uniquely created to protect the product, are often complex and interesting in shape and can be easily adapted to protect parts of the body. Kirps has borrowed those shapes and removed them from their familiar contexts to create a new visual language, presenting them as a functional product under the fictitious brand name protekt. These real objects with imaginary functions—with names like Turbomatik 1600, Duotronic 440, and Konsecuent 64—represent a solution for anxious times, primary armor against all kinds of aggression, and a response to daily fears and worries.
After a period in which he focused on emotionally expressive painting, Whitten made a conscious decision to “start experimenting with the possibilities of paint without imposing the added burden of psychological implications.” The result is a series of paintings he calls Energy Fields. His process includes the manipulation of paint with a variety of tools, from Afro combs to squeegees to rakes and brooms. He has described his goal as “defining a new spatial perception.”
After art school Wright studied sign painting, a practice that is reflected in this work. He installed this piece over a seven-day period, first studying the site and deciding on placement, then hand-painting the motifs. At the close of this exhibition the work will be painted over and the process repeated for future installations.
After relocating to Indianapolis from wartime Latvia at the age of ten, Vija Celmins began attending elementary school there before she could speak or write English and, as a result, spent much of her time in class drawing. In 1955 she enrolled in a local art school, making occasional trips to New York to see the work of the Abstract Expressionists. Accepted at a prestigious summer program at Yale University, Celmins befriended other young artists, including Chuck Close and Brice Marden, and fully devoted herself to the study of art. After abandoning her early painterly style, Celmins began making images based on her growing collection of newspaper clippings and photographs, sometimes combining or juxtaposing them in a single work. She eventually developed a group of recurring themes that included infinitely vast natural spaces such as ocean and lunar surfaces, deserts, and starry-night skies that can be related to both the allover compositions of Abstract Expressionism and the implied flatness of Minimalist abstraction. She returns frequently to these motifs, reworking them over long periods of time and in a variety of mediums, with the resulting images marked by enigmatic, contemplative effects. An interest in mark-making and the gradual and meticulous buildup of an image dominate Celmins's work. This concern is evident in paintings made via many rounds of painting and sanding, drawings made of innumerable pencil marks, as well as in her prints, which she began creating in earnest at the invitation of Tamarind Lithography Workshop in 1970. Gravitating toward labor-intensive mediums such as mezzotint or approaching techniques such as woodcut with a rarely found intricacy, as seen here, Celmins exploits the physicality of the printmaking process to suit her vision. She has made approximately forty-five editions to date.
After retiring from Copco (the American kitchenware company he founded) in 1988, Sam Farber decided to use his entrepreneurial experience to help people with physical disabilities and impairments. He asked the New York-based firm Smart Design to develop a line of kitchen utensils whose principal focus was the grip, its quality and efficiency. Oval in shape and formed out of thermoplastic elastomer—a synthetic rubber that can be molded in detail by injection—with gill-like incisions for a firm grip, the handle they developed has been outfitted with knife blades, can openers, potato peelers, and more. A better-fitting handle born out of necessity was the spark for a design philosophy that extended to other kitchen items, from measuring cups to oven mitts. The line, which was initially devised for a few, has become widely favored for its beauty, comfort, and intelligence—a great example of universal design.
After Robb's young sister died of cancer, leaving behind a seven-month-old daughter, the designer was moved to try to restore the feeling of security that the child felt with her mother. With Cries and Whispers, the child can re-create that safe space of security and comfort, with a womb made from felt that is wetted, wrapped, and rolled into shape. The entrance, like the entrance to a nest, enlarges as the child grows.
After settling in Aix, France, in 1899, Cézanne ventured daily into the surrounding Provencal landscape in search of subjects to paint. Chateau Noir, a recently constructed neo-Gothic castle designed to mimic aged ruins, captivated him. He repeatedly represented this structure and also painted from its grounds, where he had an unobstructed view of nearby Mont Sainte-Victoire, another favored subject. As is typical of landscapes executed late in his career, Cćzanne applied thick paint in broad, multihued swatches.
After settling in Los Angeles in 1968, de Cointet became fascinated with the English language and American popular culture (particularly that of southern California). He collected phrases, words, and even single letters from television and literary sources and worked these elements into nonlinear narratives that he then performed as plays, often incorporating related paintings and works on paper as focal objects. This drawing is an example of de Cointet's scriptive compositions, in which text is reduced to algorithmic visual codes rather than narrative sentences. The artist meticulously reversed the direction of the text (snippets of mundane conversations), rendering it legible but just beyond actual comprehension. It appears correctly only when held to a mirror upside down—a performative act whose symbolism was not lost on de Cointet.
After studying architecture in Stuttgart in the early 1930s, Gego left Germany in 1939 to seek asylum with her family in England. Unable to obtain a visa to remain in London, she immigrated to Venezuela, where she worked as an architect and furniture designer in Caracas for more than a decade. She turned to painting, drawing, and printmaking in the early 1950s. A unique figure among Venezuelan abstractionists of the 1960s and 1970s, Gego inflected geometric abstraction with expressive subjectivity. In addition to sculpture and drawing, she worked consistently in the printmaking medium in the 1960s. In this body of prints, she experimented with many of the forms and concepts that would appear in her sculpture almost a decade later. During her career, she completed some one hundred etchings and lithographs and a handful of illustrated books. Many of these works were created in her studio or at the printmaking workshop TAGA (Taller de Artistas Gráficos Asociados), which she helped found in Caracas with fellow artist Luisa Palacios. Gego also created prints at a number of important printmaking workshops in the United States, including Iowa State University in 1959 and Pratt Graphic Art Center in New York in 1963. An extended fellowship in 1966 enabled her to make lithographs at the Tamarind Lithography Workshop in Los Angeles. In this example she adopts a subversively playful approach to a system of otherwise parallel lines.
After the critical success of 1992's Reservoir Dogs—a film so violent that it borders on the pornographic, but filled with knowing references to classic films and film genres that mark it as the work of a knowledgeable and witty cinephile—audiences and critics alike wondered how writer/director Quentin Tarantino could possibly top himself without falling into self–parody. The answer came two years later with Pulp Fiction, a film that skillfully shifted attention away from its own considerable violence with unexpected humor, both verbal and visual, and that kept viewers off–kilter with its fragmented narrative structure without in any way thwarting their desire for coherence and resolution. A self–taught student of film history, Tarantino has the uncanny ability to absorb and invoke the work of past filmmakers without plagiarizing them. Pulp Fiction, as its very title suggests, portrays a seedy world, but as its title also suggests, it does so with a knowing wink and refusal to take itself too seriously—a ploy that allows Tarantino to load his film with all manner of baroque narrative twists and turns without boring his audience or making them turn away in revulsion. On the contrary, Pulp Fiction is the kind of film that audiences find impossible to turn away from, so curious are they to see what could possibly come next. The film spawned many imitators, eager to cash in on what was perceived to be a simple formula, but Tarantino's film is that rare phenomenon: one that tests the boundaries of what is permissible in a mainstream film while actually broadening the audience for formal experimentation.
After World War II, the rhetoric of efficiency remained a powerful force behind the design and promotion of modern kitchens. This film demonstrates a U-shaped kitchen that was developed by the Bureau of Human Nutrition and Home Economics. This model space was organized around "work centers" for key activities and the finding that "most women prefer to work right to left." Many of its features, such as the integrated counter "garbage hatch," the large picture window for natural light, the pull-out surface for tasks that require seating, and labeled storage bins for seasonings and dry goods, were actually developed many years before and featured in Grete Schütte-Lihotzky's Frankfurt Kitchen.
A garnished platter of fish is surrounded by a constellation of seemingly disparate elements—a cross, full and crescent moons, an exclamation point, a forked red flag—all hovering against a dark abyss. Some of Klee's iconography grew out of his teaching; the arrow, which he initially used as a teaching tool to indicate force and emotion for his students at the Bauhaus, here points confrontationally towards a stylized head, possibly alluding to human consciousness. Although they are often enigmatic, Klee believed his personal hieroglyphs and figurative elements had wider connotations: "The object grows beyond its appearance through our knowledge of its inner being, through the knowledge that the thing is more than its outward aspect suggests."
A grid connotes regulation and regularity, and therefore the human hand: natural forms as uniform as these patterns of evenly spaced horizontal and vertical straight lines are seldom visible to the unaided eye. In Friendship and other works, however, Martin draws a grid that somehow both softens the firm lines of geometry and seems to open onto a space far wider than the human sphere. Her art, she has said, "is about what is known forever in the mind"—perfection, the transcendent reality spoken of in Eastern religions. For her, the grid evokes not a human measure but a supernal one, a boundless order.Like many Abstract Expressionist artists (her chronological contemporaries), Martin honors the spiritual potential of art, but none of those painters approached the spiritual through symmetry. The organization of Friendship shares more with the Minimal art of a later generation, but the lines Martin has hand-scored into that shimmering plane of gold have a unique delicacy. From a distance, too, they fade, structuring the field almost subliminally. The result is a sense of an infinite space with a mysterious vitality. Indeed the experience Martin says she wants from a painting is "the simple, direct going into a field of vision as you would cross an empty beach to look at the ocean."
A group of masked figures confronts the figure of Death, centrally situated and draped in whitea color that infiltrates the entire picture. Composed of masks adorned with drapery, hats, and even blue glasses, the arrangement of figures recalls Ensor's earlier still-life compositions. The ubiquitous masks in Ensor's work were likely based on those sold in his family's curiosity shop a few floors below his studio. He explained, "The mask means to me: freshness of color, sumptuous decoration, wild unexpected gestures, very shrill expressions, exquisite turbulence." In this painting, the fantastical masked inventions appear to come alive and challenge Death—perhaps a reflection of the artist's preoccupation with mortality and his hope that he might prevail against its inevitable dominion.
A Is an Alphabet is one of the first of numerous whimsical books and portfolios based on his drawings that Warhol published in the 1950s. His friend Corkie (Ralph Thomas Ward) wrote the verses, and Warhol created drawings based on tracings he made of photographs from Life magazine and other sources. Those featuring boys with long eyelashes or pairs of men exemplify the undercurrent of homoeroticism in some of Warhol's works.
A jazz musician turned artist, Larry Rivers began studying painting in the late 1940s under the influence of Abstract Expressionism, but quickly turned to his natural facility as a draftsman to paint intimate scenes of domestic life. After a trip to Paris, he began reinterpreting art masterpieces in an impulsive, gestural, and often subversive way that mingled old and new styles, abstraction and figuration, history and satire. By the late 1950s, he was incorporating found objects and images from the mass media into his paintings, foreshadowing the practices of Pop artists. Rivers's forays into poetry, as well as his close relationships with poets and playwrights, encouraged his interest in narrative themes and in artist/writer collaborations. Also inspired by such collaborations was fledging publisher Tatyana Grosman, who had opened her print workshop, Universal Limited Art Editions (ULAE) in 1957. That year she invited Rivers to make lithographs with his close friend and then lover, poet Frank O'Hara. The project was a series of firsts: ULAE's first invitation to an artist; Rivers's first foray into printmaking; and the workshop's first illustrated book. In addition to his many projects at ULAE, Rivers made prints with Marlborough Graphics and Edition Schellmann, among other publishers. For the book Stones, Rivers and O'Hara jumped in with an enthusiasm and lack of experience that gave them freedom to experiment. Together they created an intimate dialogue, starting each print with individual titles and then responding to each other's imagery and words. Their decision to ink the edges of the stones gives the prints in this volume a storyboard frame. Autobiographical and full of spontaneous fragments, Stones epitomizes the close relationships between artists and poets in New York in the 1950s, as well as the vitality found at a burgeoning print workshop.
A keen sense of the absurd and the macabre drew Polish audiences to such writers as Franz Kafka, Harold Pinter, and Friedrich Dürrenmatt. This poster was commissioned and printed for a Warsaw dramatization of Kafka's novel and was also subsequently printed and circulated in Paris, where the designer had moved in 1963. "I wanted to leave Poland to see how my posters would stand up to the neon lights of the West," he explained in 1993. "I dreamed of Paris."
A large skeletal flying figure of Death with reptilelike feet brandishes an enormous, menacing scythe over the swarming mob of people jamming the streets below. The figures, most of whom are portrayed only by grimacing masklike faces, flee the oncoming catastrophe. In the building at the right we glimpse a nude woman toasting her companions—a hint of the debauchery, cruelty, and indifference that Ensor perceived in society. Overhead a radiating sun, centered between winged, haloed beings and frightened figures engulfed in flames, suggests heaven, hell, and the Day of Judgment. Ensor's nightmarish, satiric visions, which reveal a preoccupation with the macabre and with death, were influenced by earlier Flemish art of the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, specifically that of Hieronymus Bosch and Pieter Bruegel. Ensor's obsession with death and impermanence led him to printmaking. As he stated, "I dread the fragility of painting. I want to survive and I think of solid copper plates, of unalterable inks . . . of faithful printing, and I am adopting etching as a means of expression." Indeed, between 1886 and 1905 Ensor was a prolific printmaker, who executed 134 prints.
Albers was one of the most esteemed students of the weaving workshop at the Bauhaus, which she attended from 1920 to 1922 before teaching there herself until 1929. She often began her weaving projects with design sketches, such as this drawing for a rug. In this study, she explored the theme of horizontal-vertical construction using color, shape, proportion, and rhythm. The design reveals her admiration for the work of the painter Paul Klee, who also taught at the Bauhaus.Of the weaving workshop she later observed: "Technique was acquired as it was needed and as a foundation for future attempts. Unburdened by any practical considerations, this play with materials produced amazing results, textiles striking in their novelty, their fullness of color and texture, and possessing often a quite barbaric beauty."Albers used textiles as her primary artistic medium for almost forty years, experimenting directly with innovative materials and creating prototypes for industrial production. She became as acclaimed for her activities as a teacher and writer on design and weaving as for her textile designs. Albers continued to explore relationships of color and line most markedly after 1963, when her interest shifted to printmaking.
Albert Borchardt, Berlin. Purchased in Berlin (Galerie Der Sturm) in 1912 – at least 1914[ Herwarth Walden (born Georg Levin, 1878-1941), Galerie Der Sturm, Berlin. Before 1941]Mrs. Nell Walden (widow of Herwarth Walden). On loan to the Öffentliche Kunstsammlung, Basel. By 1948Herbert and Nannette Rothschild, Kitchawan, New York. By 1960The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift of Herbert and Nannette Rothschild, 1965
Albright's model may wear a stately costume (actually an old fur coat turned inside out, according to the artist) but her flesh is harshly lit from above to seem sagging and gray. The artist was undoubtedly influenced by his experience making medical illustrations for the U.S. Army during World War I, and a sense of the frailty and ultimate decay of the human body pervades this painting. Albright made Woman in Warrenville, Illinois, where he used a former Methodist church as a studio. A local woman posed as his model; rather than transforming her into an idealized image of femininity, he treated her as a dour symbol of the aging body and the enervating forces of life.
Aldo Rossi designed the Cemetery of San Cataldo for a 1971 competition that called for an extension to the existing nineteenth-century Costa Cemetery. Employing conventions of perspective developed in the fifteenth century, Rossi uses an aerial view to give a sense of the cemetery in both plan and elevation. One enters this wall-enclosed space through a gate opposite what seems to be an abandoned house, a cubic structure designed as a collective or nondenominational temple to be used for funeral, religious, or civil ceremonies. As one proceeds along the central axis, it passes through successive rectangular structures, riblike ossuaries that rise in height as they diminish in length. The journey is punctuated by a cone-shaped smokestack monumentalizing a communal grave for the unknown, and referencing the industrial landscape beyond. Rossi's design is rooted in an Enlightenment typology of the cemetery as a walled structure set on the outskirts of town. It not only recalls the adjacent Costa Cemetery but, as Rossi says, "complies with the image of a cemetery that everyone has." A structure without a roof, it is a deserted building intended for those who no longer need the protection of shelter-a house for the dead in which life and death exist as a continuum within the collective memory. Through his use of aerial perspective, elemental form, and color, Rossi constructs a visual passage through the drawing that corresponds to the journey contra natura through the cemetery. Shadows stem from a particular light source yet reference no particular time of day. Perspective, traditionally universalizing, is colored with a Northern Italian palette, and draws our eye not back into space but rather up the page. Like the cemetery itself, the drawing presents a road toward abandonment in which time seems to stand still.
A leading artist of the second generation of Abstract Expressionism, Helen Frankenthaler knew from a young age that she wanted to be a painter. She had her first solo gallery show at the age of twenty-three in 1951, and painted her landmark work, Mountains and Sea, the following year. In the late 1950s, a printmaking renaissance was beginning, and some of Frankenthaler's fellow artists began encouraging her to try the medium. In 1961, at the invitation of Tatyana Grosman, Frankenthaler ventured out to Universal Limited Art Editions (ULAE), Grosman's Long Island printmaking studio, and began making lithographs.  Frankenthaler has said, “After the first day there I felt no hesitation. I was very committed. All I had to do was start work on that print. It was a whole new road-and a very connected road.” By 1976 Frankenthaler had made about fifty prints, thirty-seven of them at ULAE, in mediums including lithography, intaglio, screenprint, pochoir, and woodcut. In that year, she was invited to the new Bedford, New York, workshop of Kenneth Tyler, formerly of Gemini G.E.L. in Los Angeles. Working there, she revolutionized woodcut, a medium generally out of favor with artists at that time. With Essence Mulberry, duly inspired by the faded colors of hand-painted fifteenth-century prints seen at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and a lushly ripe mulberry tree on Tyler's property, Frankenthaler set out to re-create the look of painting with mulberry juice. She carved four blocks, one each of oak, birch, walnut and lauan, all having different printed effects. A reinvention of the technique, the ethereal Essence Mulberry differs from most major woodcuts of the modern period, which tend toward a bold expressionist idiom. To date Frankenthaler has completed about one hundred twenty-five editions and one hundred fifteen monotypes.
A leading figure of the European avant-garde between the two world wars, in 1921 Rodchenko coauthored the "Constructivist Manifesto," which advocated the use of new materials and photomechanical processes in the creation of collective social knowledge and networks of communication. He collaborated with writers Osip Brik, Nikolai Aseev, Vladimir Mayakovsky, and Sergei Tret'iakov on the covers and layouts for the Soviet avantgarde journals Lef and Novyi Lef. Rodchenko and his comrades popularized the idea of "factography" through these journals and other documentary projects designed to record the technical and cultural revolutions occurring in the Soviet Union in the 1920s. The Lef-associated filmmaker Dziga Vertov wrote, "We must form a FI LM FACTORY OF FACTS" and mobilized others in Filming Facts. Sorting facts. Disseminating facts. Agitating with facts. Propaganda with facts. Fists made of facts." Rodchenko was committed to actively transforming reality through mass communication, and he believed that pictures emphasizing odd camera angles, radical foreshortening, and close-ups would energize a mass audience.
A legendary bartender, Lautrec presided over an infamous party thrown by Alexandre Natanson and his wife in 1895. The invitation promised “American and other drinks,” and when guests arrived they found Lautrec behind the bar concocting extraordinarily strong drinks as well as his inventive “solid cocktails,” which included such ingredients as sardines, juniper, and port.
A legendary figure in Mexican art at the turn of the twentieth century, José Guadalupe Posada was inarguably his country's most influential printmaker, with a body of work numbering at least sixteen hundred printed images. Some claim he made as many as twenty thousand prints during his career, a number difficult to ascertain because of his many followers. Most of his prints took the form of relief engravings printed for mass distribution as broadsheets, posters, and cartoons, among other popular formats. Posada apprenticed in a lithography workshop while still in his teens and soon was running his own commercial shop in León de los Aldamas, Guanajuato. After selling this establishment and moving to Mexico City in 1888, he joined the shop of Antonio Vanegas Arroyo, where he worked until his death. Arroyo was a master of the popular "penny" print, distributing broadsheets to the working classes, including Posada's ejemplos (examples), works drawn from sensational news items and published as a means of improving the morals of the people. During the tumultuous years leading up to the Mexican Revolution of 1910, Posada relentlessly commented on the leading political and social issues of his day, satirizing everyone and anything. The most recurrent theme in his prints, the calavera (skull), was probably invented by his contemporary Manuel Manilla, but Posada popularized it as a national icon. This symbol, commemorating Mexico's celebration of the Day of the Dead, became for Posada a sentimental and ironic character embodying the repressed urges of society and reflecting his preoccupation with mortality. Often depicting popular characters like Don Quixote, Posada's calaveras were accompanied by popular ballads (corridos) describing their exploits.
Alessandro Mendini's design for the facade of this house appeared on the cover of the Italian design magazine Casabella, during the international debate sparked by radical architecture in the early 1970s. Mendini's drawings embody two of the opposing views prevalent within the debate: they reveal an architecture of unmediated structures not intellectualized by means of drawing and an architecture that is abstract, conceptual, and full of linguistic references. In this drawing, which shows the back of the house in muted light, Mendini has projected onto the flat facade an image of the elevation of a Greek temple, the lower section and columnar spacing of which determine the proportions and fenestration. Mendini believed that architecture, if connected to the image of ancient construction, could gain in energy and feeling.
Alessandro Mendini's design for the facade of this house appeared on the cover of the Italian design magazine Casabella, during the international debate sparked by radical architecture in the early 1970s. Mendini's drawings embody two of the opposing views prevalent within the debate: they reveal an architecture of unmediated structures not intellectualized by means of drawing and an architecture that is abstract, conceptual, and full of linguistic references. In this drawing, which shows the front of the house in muted light, Mendini has projected onto the flat facade an image of the elevation of a Greek temple, the lower section and columnar spacing of which determine the proportions and fenestration. Mendini believed that architecture, if connected to the image of ancient construction, could gain in energy and feeling.
Alexei Jawlensky's portfolio of six lithographs addresses the artist's main subject: the human face. Jawlensky did not consider his images of faces to be portraits; they were, rather, meditations on mystical and spiritual concerns. As he once remarked, "For me the face is not just a face but the whole universe. In the face, the whole universe is revealed."Jawlensky constructed these heads through an economical process, using only the barest number of black lines and dots—no more than eighteen marks in each composition—that he carefully plotted and painstakingly rendered. He varied the tilt and torsion of the faces from one composition to the other. Privately, he worried that these black-and-white prints lacked meaning, which he usually created through color. He embellished some of the compositions by tracing the black lines with watercolors, as he did in the Museum's five impressions.Jawlensky rarely made prints (fewer than thirty are known, as opposed to more than 2,000 oil paintings). In the early 1920s, however, the print market offered artists lucrative rewards, and the financially strapped Jawlensky took advantage of the opportunity to make this portfolio for the contemporary art society in Wiesbaden, where he had recently settled.
Alfred Spitzer (1861-1923), Vienna [1]; by inheritance to his daughter Hanna Spitzer (1897-1981), Vienna and New York, 1923 [2]; sold to Galerie St. Etienne (Otto Kallir), New York, 1957 [3]; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York (Mr. and Mrs. Donald B. Straus Fund), 1957.[1] Jane Kallir, Egon Schiele: The Complete Works. New York: Harry N. Abrams, 1990, no. 1061.[2] Collection files, Department of Drawings, The Museum of Modern Art, New York.[3] Ibid.
Alfred Stieglitz, Edward Weston, and others defined the dominant aesthetic of modern American photography of the 1920s. The formal rigor and precision of their pictures set forth an ideal of purity and contemplation, unsullied by the complexities of the modern world. It was their acute alertness to subtle particulars that saved their work from lifeless perfection.Beginning in the early 1940s and for nearly half a century thereafter, Callahan extended the tradition by intensifying both of its poles. His pictures mark an extreme of austerity, but they are full of variety and playful experiment. Like snowflakes, they adhere to a rigid set of rules, but no two are the same.Callahan's view of the shore of Lake Michigan reduces photography's unbroken scale of tones to the extreme white of the snow, the pure black of the trees, and a middle gray. Yet the distinction between water and sky is there—just barely. And, while the tree trunks make strong vertical accents, they vary in thickness and shape; and they group themselves into pairs, like three figures poised for action. As the trunks branch and branch again, they make a tapestry: flattened, whole, unbroken, but delicate and inexhaustibly intricate.
Along with paintings and collages mounted on panels, Smith produces small, limited–edition, hand–bound, photocopied books with pages of quick sketches relating to a particular theme, event, or genre. Subjects have included a history of flight, Claude Monet's Water Lilies paintings, cave drawings, ghosts and devils, public transportation, and the exploits of Frank and Jesse James. This is a complete collection of Smith's books to date, housed in a unique wooden case bearing imprints of the artist's hands, sitting on two painted stools. He compiled pages selected from throughout the collection into two volumes for visitors to look through. When not on view, the books are available for study by appointment in the Department of Prints and Illustrated Books' Study Center.
[Alphonse Kahn, Paris?][Père Soulier, Paris]André Level, Paris. [Purchased c. 1917 or 18]Sold at Level auction: Hotel Drouot, Tableaux modernes, (Collection L.), March 3, 1927, cat. no. 101Galerie Pierre Loeb, Paris. [Purchased at Level sale, March 3, 1927.] By 1928 - 1939(Perls Galleries, New York. Agent. On consignment from Galerie Pierre Loeb, 1939)Walter P. Chrysler, Jr., New York. Purchased from Loeb through Perls in October 1939 - [1952?]Sidney and Harriet Janis, New York. 1952 - 1967The Museum of Modern Art, New York. The Sidney and Harriet Janis Collection, 1967
Although Calder often titled his works after he completed them, this work does suggest an abstract homage to a spider—its slender, curved wires, in particular, conjure the legs of an arachnid. Calder has orchestrated a careful balancing act between the large disc and the dramatically cantilevered appendages, which slowly flutter in space with every current of air. A steel rod anchors the sculpture, making this a standing mobile, yet unpredictable movement constantly modifies its form.The existentialist philosopher Jean–Paul Sartre extolled Calders mobiles. He described the mobile as a "lyrical invention," inhabiting "a half–way station between the servility of a statue and the independence of nature. Each of its evolutions is the inspiration of a split second. One sees the artists main theme, but the mobile embroiders it with a thousand variations."
Although Dove is best known for his paintings, in the 1920s he also made many collages, including this one. The work is associational, bringing various items together to construct an abstract portrait of a grandmotherly figure. The fragment of needlepoint and the page of an eighteenth-century concordance, an index of terms in the Bible, evoke the past, as do the dried ferns, reminiscent of the practice of pressing flowers and leaves in an album. The work embodies age and wear, but invokes a fondness for a beloved figure, and the value of everyday scraps and common materials. Dove was a key member of the circle of artists associated with Alfred Stieglitz, whose publications and galleries were a driving force in gaining recognition for American artists during the first half of the twentieth century.
Although Duchamp had collected manufactured objects in his studio in Paris, it was not until he came to New York that he identified them as a category of art, giving the English name "Readymade" to any object purchased "as a sculpture already made."  When he modified these objects, for example by mounting a bicycle wheel on a kitchen stool, he called them "Assisted Readymades." Duchamp later recalled that the original Bicycle Wheel was created as a "distraction": "I enjoyed looking at it, just as I enjoy looking at the flames dancing in a fireplace."
Although Gibraltar is abstract, the connection is easily made between its base—a weighty lump of lignum vitae (a tropical hardwood)—and the Mediterranean rock that gives the work its name. This mass of wood is rough and solid, and seemingly unshaped. More delicate, and more clearly marked by human artifice, are the work's sloping plane of walnut, its painted wood ball, and its two steel rods balancing a crescent and a sphere, respectively. Gibraltar recalls the biomorphic forms in Surrealist art, particularly that of Joan Miró, a strong influence on Calder. But there is also a poetic whimsy that is Calder's alone.The sculpture is contradictory in its qualities. The rods are thin and linear, and express an upward, airborne drive and eccentric balance; the lignum vitae is heavy, earth-hugging, solid. The surfaces, too, show various materials being variously treated, implying methods from machine-making to hand-polishing to leaving well enough alone. These disjunctions have a good-humored wit, which does not disguise the work's grace. Calder once said that "the underlying sense of form" in his work was "the system of the Universe," and Gibraltar, with its sun, moon, and heavy earth, is a solar system in miniature-a system revealed as a fine-tuned balance of opposites.
Although he has achieved renown throughout the international art world, Antoni Tàpies has remained in his native Barcelona, maintaining ties to his Catalan heritage. A teenager during the Spanish Civil War, he suffered from the isolation and repression of the Franco years but found recognition in the 1950s as part of Art informel, a European movement paralleling Abstract Expressionism in America. Termed "matter painting," his work was noteworthy for thick, furrowed surfaces of sand, varnish, marble dust, and latex. This interest in audacious materials has continued, but Tàpies enriched his visual language in the ensuing decades to also include indications of cryptic writing, everyday objects, and a human presence. Tàpies's involvement with printmaking came at the invitation of several publishers, and he welcomed the new techniques it involved and the relationships he established with master craftsmen in printshops. He immediately sought to challenge the flatness of paper by adding such elements as straw and flocking, by tearing his sheets, and by creating surface indentations with carborundum or embossing. The large-scale Chairs represents the nature of the abstraction, imbued with shifting meanings, that has become his hallmark. Here calligraphic signs are transformed into furniture and then anthropomorphized into communicating protagonists. Tàpies has created some fifteen hundred printed images and also given sustained attention to illustrating books, creating some thirty-five volumes in collaboration with a range of contemporary poets. This is not surprising given the fact that he is an avid reader, essay writer, and committed bibliophile whose library rivals his painting studio as a center of his life. He has said that Anular is among his favorite books. He admires the physicality of its accordion format and the syncopation it creates from the combination of his own signs and symbols, the poetic phrases of author José-Miguel Ullán, and the old Spanish constitution that forms a backdrop.
Although he has achieved renown throughout the international art world, Antoni Tàpies has remained in his native Barcelona, maintaining ties to his Catalan heritage. A teenager during the Spanish Civil War, he suffered from the isolation and repression of the Franco years but found recognition in the 1950s as part of Art informel, a European movement paralleling Abstract Expressionism in America. Termed "matter painting," his work was noteworthy for thick, furrowed surfaces of sand, varnish, marble dust, and latex. This interest in audacious materials has continued, but Tàpies enriched his visual language in the ensuing decades to also include indications of cryptic writing, everyday objects, and a human presence. Tàpies's involvement with printmaking came at the invitation of several publishers, and he welcomed the new techniques it involved and the relationships he established with master craftsmen in printshops. He immediately sought to challenge the flatness of paper by adding such elements as straw and flocking, by tearing his sheets, and by creating surface indentations with carborundum or embossing. The large-scale Chairs represents the nature of the abstraction, imbued with shifting meanings, that has become his hallmark. Here calligraphic signs are transformed into furniture and then anthropomorphized into communicating protagonists.Tàpies has created some fifteen hundred printed images and also given sustained attention to illustrating books, creating some thirty-five volumes in collaboration with a range of contemporary poets. This is not surprising given the fact that he is an avid reader, essay writer, and committed bibliophile whose library rivals his painting studio as a center of his life. He has said that Anular is among his favorite books. He admires the physicality of its accordion format and the syncopation it creates from the combination of his own signs and symbols, the poetic phrases of author José-Miguel Ullán, and the old Spanish constitution that forms a backdrop.
Although he started his career in the 1920s by working in a relatively traditional, representational mode, Jean Fautrier did not reach artistic maturity until the mid-1940s, when he created his seminal Hostage paintings. These works—begun in 1943 when his studio was near a Nazi prison camp outside of Paris and he reputedly heard the cries of its victims—depict anonymous, abstracted heads, limbless torsos, and disembodied hands. With their crude, encrusted surfaces, built up through the use of a plasterlike paper pulp, the paintings were interpreted as emblems of the violence and decay of the Holocaust and also as a call to moral action in resistance. Their quasi-abstract, gestural nature also helped usher in a new movement known as Art informel (formless art), a European counterpart to Abstract Expressionism in the late 1940s and 1950s. Fautrier valued the democratic potential of printmaking and created nearly three hundred prints during his lifetime—roughly half lithographs and half intaglio prints, as well as a handful of woodcuts. Many were produced for illustrated book projects in collaboration with leading French writers who championed his work. His subjects included hostage imagery, erotic nudes, and abstracted plant forms. In the etching shown here he approximated the rough, textured surfaces of his Hostage paintings by using the etching needle to scar and pit his plate. Although most of Fautrier's prints were executed during the 1940s, they were often not editioned until after 1958, when he entered into a contract with publisher Michel Couturier to make new impressions of old plates. Prior to authorizing these comparatively traditional editions, Fautrier devoted much of the decade from 1946 to 1956 to an experimental series of "multiple originals," in which prints on paper were overworked with gouache, pastel, and paper pulp and mounted on canvas. Although intended to make his art more widely available, the project was not a commercial success.
Although images of women and children are frequent in the history of art, depictions of pregnancy are rare. In Hope, II a woman with a skull nestled into her gown lowers her head toward her swelling belly. Below, three women also bow their heads—in prayer or possibly mourning. The ornate decoration in Hope, II nearly overwhelms its surface. Klimt was committed to craftwork, and was among the many artists of his time who combined archaic traditions—here Byzantine gold leaf painting—with a modern psychological subject. Klimt lived and worked in turn-of-the-century Vienna, home to Sigmund Freud, the father of psychoanalysis; Klimt's exploration of formative drives like sex and death parallel Freud's explorations of the psyche.
Although it shares a name with the biblical tale of Jacob's dreamed ascent toward heaven, and also with an ancient Egyptian toy, Frankenthaler insisted this work had no illustrational intention: "The picture developed (bit by bit while I was working on it) into shapes symbolic of an exuberant figure and ladder, therefore Jacob's Ladder." Working in New York in the 1950s, Frankenthaler painted large-scale unprimed canvases on the floor to explore new ways of handling distinctively thinned paint. The artist said she borrowed from Jackson Pollock her "concern with line, fluid line, calligraphy, and ... experiments with line not as line but as shape."
Although Lenica left Poland in 1963 to work in Paris and Berlin, he continued to accept commissions from the Polish state agencies. This poster advertising a German exhibition of Polish Surrealist art is indicative of Western European interest in the Polish art and design of the 1960s. Lenica's motif of brains in a bowler hat is a witty adaptation of imagery by Belgian artist René Magritte. It indicates the pervasive Polish fascination with Surrealism as well as the characteristic Central European emphasis on the concealed interior life of the individual.
Although Marshall is known primarily as a painter, his work encompasses drawing, printmaking, sculpture, and installation. All of his production is characterized by hybridity; he weaves together elements from Western and African art history, classical mythology, film history, comic books, and civil rights monuments and events. If his strategies are hybrid, his aim is focused: "to articulate the cultural, social, and political history of black people in America." Marshall's own relationship to the civil rights movement may account for his commitment. He lived in Birmingham, Alabama, at the time of the 1963 church bombing and near the Watts area of Los Angeles during the 1965 riots, and he went to junior high school a few short blocks from the Black Panthers headquarters in L.A.Marshall has often turned his attention to conflicting conceptions of black beauty. In this study Marshall critiques conventions of femininity while revealing his interest in tradition—particularly that of European modernism, from Paul Gauguin to Odilon Redon. This large, dense, and carefully worked drawing depicts a dark-skinned mermaid half immersed in a pool of shimmering water. She looks boldly and directly at the viewer, catching us with her gaze in our own acts of voyeurism. Typically, the figure of a mermaid evokes a mythic ideal of white beauty. Challenging preconceptions, Marshall offers "a stylized representation of a beauty that [is] unequivocally black."
Although Munch was just thirty-one years old when he created this self-portrait, he represented himself as a spectral figure, with bones at the bottom of the picture serving as a memento mori, or reminder of death. They are balanced by the artist's name and the date at the top of the image; together these details turn it into a kind of tombstone, or sepulchral tablet. Munch later stated, "Sickness, insanity, and death were the dark angels standing guard at my cradle and they have followed me throughout my life." The darkness of the background allows the bones to appear to be those of the subject's arm, leaning on the picture's frame. The severed, floating head was a familiar motif in art around the turn of the twentieth century, signifying a split between the physical and spiritual worlds.
Although primarily a painter, Oskar Schlemmer was appointed head of the theater group at the Bauhaus in 1925, inaugurating a period of theatrical experimentation. The Triadic Ballet, created before World War I but only presented as a completed work after 1922, was conceived for three dancers—one female and two males. Schlemmer designed eighteen costumes for the ballets twelve choreographies, which were performed against backdrops of yellow, white, and black. Building on multiples of three, the artist explained, transcended the egotism of the individual and dualism of the couple, emphasizing the collective.
Although Rousseau completed more than twenty-five jungle paintings in his career, he never traveled outside France. He instead drew on images of the exotic as it was presented to the urban dweller through popular literature, colonial expositions, and the Paris Zoo. The lush jungle, wild animals, and mysterious horn player featured in this work were inspired by Rousseau's visits to the city's natural history museum and Jardin des plantes (a combined zoo and botanical garden). Of his visits the artist said, "When I am in these hothouses and see the strange plants from exotic lands, it seems to me that I am entering a dream." The nude model in this painting reclines on a sofa, mixing the domestic and the exotic.
Although sculpture is the most public aspect of Richard Serra's work, drawing and printmaking also play an important role. In the late 1960s, Serra poured, splashed, and threw molten material against gallery and museum walls, originating the idea of "process art." More recently, he has made massive public steel sculptures that tilt, torque, and twist. Drawing comprises a more private but essential element of his creative process. He describes the eye as a muscle that must be exercised every day and carries notebooks so he can sketch as the mood strikes him. Considering printmaking to be an extension of drawing, Serra has been making prints since 1972, and has completed more than one hundred thirty editions. In 1989 Serra began a public sculpture, Afangar, on the small island of Videy, near Iceland's capital city of Reykjavik. During the project, which consists of nine pairs of basalt stelae erected throughout the island, Serra filled dozens of sketchbooks with related drawings. Working with Gemini G.E.L., his preferred print workshop, he decided to translate some of these drawings into prints, eventually completing twenty-nine etchings ranging in size from small to monumental. In an effort to achieve the dense texture of paintstick, a medium used in many drawings, and to provide an appropriate counterpart for the rough-hewn surface of the basalt stones, Gemini printers worked with Serra to develop an etching process that would give these prints the weight and physical presence required to emulate the massiveness of the sculpture. Afangar, the title for the sculpture, is taken from a mythic Icelandic poem and is understood by the artist to mean "stations, stops on the road, to stop and look: forward and back, to take it all in." Hreppholar is the name of a village not far from the site of the sculptures.
"Although the paintings themselves are not specifically narrative," American artist Dana Schutz explains, "I often invent imaginative systems and situations to generate information." This painting depicts just such a contrived situation, in which a mutilated and partially dismembered figure lies on a board suspended above an opening in the ground. Whether the figure is about to be lowered into this grave or has been recently exhumed, we do not know. Solemn onlookers in a seemingly endless procession gather and file past. Boldly executed in high-keyed colors, the composition is evocative of art-historical precedents yet evades any specific narrative or interpretation.
Although the title American Landscape may evoke a rural scene, Sheeler's subject here is the Ford Motor Company plant on the River Rouge near Detroit, Michigan. In 1927 he had photographed the plant extensively, and he would go on to examine it in works in a number of mediums. While these works experiment with arrangements of hard–edged forms and shifting planes, they also make clear how innovative American industry was during these years, how it was generating a radically new American landscape and experience. Missing from Sheeler's images are the people who worked in the factory, perhaps reflecting an ambivalence about the country's shift toward the industrial.
Although this drawing of Frank Lloyd Wright's Unity Temple is inscribed with the building's completion date, 1908, the rendering itself was made years later, around 1929–30. This fact is significant because the drawing's style and the circumstances of its production relate directly to the aging architect's reputation and waning career, which, in 1930, when Wright was in his early sixties, were being challenged by a younger generation associated with the emerging modern movement that would come to be known as the International Style. That year, delivering the Kahn Lectures on Modern Architecture at Princeton University, Wright critiqued aspects of the new architecture. A small exhibition of his work that accompanied the lectures featured many of his projects from the century's first decade—including Unity Temple, an influential building that boldly broke with traditions of ecclesiastical architecture in form, materials, and symbolism. In an effort to recast Wright's work in a more modern guise, his young assistants Heinrich Klumb and Takehiko Okami prepared new drawings for the show in a bold new manner. In this rendering Unity Temple is reduced to starkly contrasting, relatively unornamented black and white planes, and is completely detached from its context in the landscape. The drawing focuses our attention on the cubic massing of the monolithic reinforced-concrete building, the vertical and horizontal planar surfaces, and the corner piers containing the stairs, evident in the plan below. The style is a marked departure from Wright's more typical renderings, which are romantic and colorful, expressively depicting the building, its details, and the surrounding landscape. By effectively co-opting the drawing style of a younger generation of architects associated with the modern movement, Wright consciously positioned himself as a forerunner of the so-called International Style.
Although Winters's work is rooted in abstraction, it is informed by an interest in the structure of biological, architectural, and technological forms. This title page from his first print portfolio combines cellular and geodesic dome–like structures. It displays the influence of a wide range of materials, from natural history illustrations to medical diagrams of neural connections and masses of fertilized and dividing cells. While Winters continues to explore natural and synthetic structural systems, his recent work has often centered around loosely structured grids inspired by microchips, circuitry, and transit maps.Painting, drawing, and printmaking play equally integral roles in his creative practice, and Winters often explores ideas across mediums. Ranking among the most dedicated contemporary printmakers, he works in intaglio, screenprint, linoleum cut, and woodcut, and experiments with new ways of using traditional print mediums. Since Folio Winters has made numerous portfolios, a format that is a fitting vehicle for the serial exploration of themes and images and is well suited to his interest in systems and structures.
A. L. van Ameringen, New York. Purchased in 1947. Still owned it by 1949 Mr. and Mrs. Douglas Auchincloss, New York. (Lily Auchincloss, formerly Lily van Ameringen, kept the collage after her divorce from Douglas Auchincloss.) The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift of Lily Auchincloss, 1964
A major figure in both the German Dada and French Surrealist movements, Max Ernst was a prolific and experimental printmaker who used printing as a means of going beyond painting. Between 1912 and 1974, he made more than five hundred lithographs, etchings, and linoleum cuts, many of which appeared as book illustrations. In Let There Be Fashion, Down with Art, Ernst's first major print project, he mapped out many of the motifs of his later work and also paid homage to the imaginary tableaux of Giorgio de Chirico. In a revolt against Expressionist printmaking, Ernst drew elements culled from commonplace printed advertisements onto a lithographic stone using a gestureless mechanical line. The anti-art sentiment reflected in this style, and the phrase "Down with Art," express the spirit of both nihilism and nonsense that was a pervasive aspect of Dada activities in Cologne at the time. Encouraged by Surrealist poet Paul Éluard, Ernst moved from Cologne to Paris in 1922. Exploring the practice of many painters and poets who wished to plumb the unconscious as a source for their art, Ernst experimented with the semiautomatic process of frottage—rubbings made from textured objects or surfaces. The patterns and textures generated by such rubbings were the starting point for his images, as seen in the portfolio Histoire Naturelle. Ernst also collaborated with poets, including André Breton, Tristan Tzara, and others, by providing illustrations for their texts. In 1929 he made his first "collage novel," incorporating a technique central to his experiments with the effects of chance. He created a series of collages with imagery culled from nineteenth- and early-twentieth-century pulp novels, scientific journals, and natural-history magazines and arranged them in a sequence as pages. He then printed these collages by photomechanical means to transform them into the seamless images he desired. Like popular serial stories, Ernst released Une Semaine de bonté in the form of five consecutive volumes that evoke erotic violence and intrigue, as well as humor.
A major figure in German avant-garde art of the early twentieth century, expatriate American painter Lyonel Feininger began his career in Berlin in the 1890s as an illustrator of satirical subjects. He later served as the first artistic director of the printing shop of the Bauhaus, a progressive arts-and-crafts school founded at Weimar in 1919. Of the more than three hundred woodcuts Feininger produced, the one initially titled The Cathedral of Socialism is the most historically significant and widely admired. It served as a cover design for the Bauhaus manifesto by architect Walter Gropius and was meant to symbolize both the unity and the spiritual basis of the various arts under the primacy of architecture. The fragmented and intersecting planes that convey dynamism in Cathedral first appeared in Feininger's work about 1911, under the influence of Cubism. His drypoint The Gate, depicting tiny figures in a medieval setting animated by exaggerated proportions, includes stark contrasts of light and dark and skewed forms. Feininger's love of Gothic architecture is evident in this town gate, which he depicted in woodcuts and paintings. This print, a high point in Feininger's oeuvre of some sixty-five intaglios from 1906 to 1924, was published after the war in an important series of German print portfolios entitled Die Schaffenden. After Feininger returned to the United States in 1937 to avoid Nazi accusations of being a "degenerate" artist, his printmaking was confined to a small group of lithographs made with noted printer George C. Miller in New York in the 1950s.
Amanzi Amthatha (“The cold water takes him”) commemorates the Xhosa warrior-prophet Makana, who led attacks against the British in 1819 and was captured and imprisoned on Robben Island, off Cape Town (the same prison where Nelson Mandela was incarcerated from 1964 to 1982). The print suggests the treacherous waters surrounding Robben Island, in which Makana and thirty others died when their boat capsized during an escape attempt. This print is part of a group portfolio by Tana and nineteen other artists involved with the Egazini Outreach Project, which was founded in 2000 to use printmaking to document regional Xhosa history.
A map is supposed to provide a definitive representation of the physical and political boundaries of countries, continents, rivers, and oceans. Italian artist Alighiero e Boetti commissioned Afghani artisans to make this embroidered map in 1989. It includes several oddities and some tragic ironies, all of which underscore that nothing is permanent on our earth. Certain countries do not appear on the map because they did not yet exist (Ukraine and Belarus, for example). Some nations, such as Israel, are not represented because the Taliban regime of Afghanistan did not then recognize their existence. Some countries that are represented, such as Zaire and the USSR, have since changed political identities and no longer exist.
Ambitious, elegant, impersonal, large in scale, and simultaneously timeless and reflective of its time—these, according to Katz, are the qualities of "high style" in painting, and they are also the qualities of many of his own works. Believing that "you have no power unless you have traditional elements in your pictures," Katz achieves high style by integrating familiar traditions with avant–garde practice. Passing belongs to a venerable genre—it is a self-portrait—but has the scale of Abstract Expressionism. Another inspiration is the advertising billboard; like the Pop artists, Katz pays attention to the cultural scene. Meanwhile, his reductive approach and his conception of pictorial space match those in the formalist painting of the 1960s.The ground in Passing is a flat monochrome, and Katz's face and shoulders are so simplified that it is mainly their clarity as parts of a figure that insinuates their volume. Neither smiling nor frowning, Katz meets our gaze frankly, but his character is muted by the artifice of the painting's design: the perfect ellipse of the hat brim; the asymmetry in the height of the shoulders; the limited palette, all near-flat blacks, whites, and grays except for the face. Far from the bohemian artist, Katz looks coolly imperturbable in his businessman's suit and hat—stylish not only in his painting but in his person.
Ambroise Vollard (1866-1939), Paris [1]; Claude Monet (1840-1926),  Giverny, March 1896 [2]; by inheritance to Michel Monet (1878-1966), Giverny, 1926 [3]; [André Weil, Paris] [4]. Bernheim-Jeune, Paris [5]; on consignment to Jacques Seligmann & Co., Paris/New York and Knoedler Galleries, London/New York, 1935 [6]; sold to Valentine Dudensing, New York, 1935 [7]; sold to William S. Paley (1901-1990), New York, 1935 [8]; The William S. Paley Collection at The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1959.[1] John Rewald et al., The Paintings of Paul Cézanne: A Catalogue Raisonné, New York: H.N. Abrams, 1996, no. 443 (L'Estaque, 1879-83). William Rubin and Matthew Armstrong, eds., The William S. Paley Collection, The Museum of Modern Art, New York, Feb 2-May 7, 1992, no. 14; see also p. 28.[2] Ibid.[3] Ibid. [4] John Rewald et al., The Paintings of Paul Cézanne, no. 443.[5] Letter Gaston and Joseph Bernheim to Germain Seligmann, September 27, 1935, Jacques Seligmann & Co. records, 1904-1978, bulk 1913-1974. Archives of American Art, Smithsonian Institution.[6] Ibid.[7] Letter M. Knoedler & Co. to Jacques Seligmann & Co., September 17, 1935, Jacques Seligmann & Co. records, 1904-1978, bulk 1913-1974. Archives of American Art, Smithsonian Institution.[8] Jacques Seligmann & Co. records, 1904-1978, bulk 1913-1974. Archives of American Art, Smithsonian Institution.
[Ambroise Vollard (1866-1939), Paris, c. 1906] [1]. [Sidney Janis, New York, by 1950] [2] ; Charles (1897-1984) and Eugenia Zadok, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, and New York [3]; The Museum of Modern Art, New York (Gift of Mr. and Mrs. Charles Zadok), 1952.[1] See Jacqueline Munck, "Vollard and the Fauves: Derain and Vlaminck," Cézanne to Picasso: Ambroise Vollard, Patron of the Avantgarde, ed. by Rebecca Rabinow, exh. cat. New York: The Metropolitan Museum of Art, New Haven and London: Yale University Press, 2006, p. 123: "Although Vollard seems to have had this remarkable series of paintings in hand as of summer 1907, he never showed it in its entirety." See also Rémi Labrousse and Jacqueline Munck, "André Derain in London (1906-07)," Ernst Vegelin van Claerbergen and Barnaby Wright, eds., André Derain: The London Paintings, exh. cat. London: Courtauld Institute of Art Gallery , 2005, p. 14: "The completion of thirty canvases is not documented until July 1907, when the painter sent his dealer a summary of accounts in which he identifies one lot of twenty-six canvases and one of four, all at the (very modest) price of 150 francs (evidenly Derain had not painted the fifty canvases originally planned)."[2] Included in the exhibition Les Fauves, Sidney Janis Gallery, New York, November 13-December 23, 1950, no. 11: London Tower Bridge. [3] Michel Kellermann, André Derain: catalogue raisonné de l'oeuvre peint, Paris: Editions Galerie Schmit, 1992, vol. 1, no. 89: Le Pont de Londres, 1905-06.
Ambroise Vollard (1867-1939), Paris. March 31, 1913Paul Cassirer, Berlin. March 31, 1913 - ?[Prince de Wagram, Paris?]C. Hoogendijk, The HagueGalerie Barbazanges, ParisMarius de Zayas, New YorkLillie P. Bliss, New YorkThe Museum of Modern Art, New York. Lillie P. Bliss Collection, 1934
[Ambroise Vollard (1867-1939), Paris]Pierre Matisse Gallery, New York. By 1933Stephen C. Clark, New York. Acquired from Pierre Matisse Gallery, by 1940 - 1941The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Given anonymously, 1941
[Ambroise Vollard, Paris (1867-1939), c.1932-33?] [Curt Valentin, Buchholz Gallery, New York. c. 1940?] James Thrall Soby (1906-1979), New Canaan, Connecticut, and New YorkThe Museum of Modern Art, New York. James Thrall Soby Bequest, 1979
Ambroise Vollard, Paris (1867-1939)Wildenstein Gallery, New York. By 1934 until October 13, 1938Pierre Gallery, Paris. From October 13, 1938Perls Galleries, New YorkWalter P. Chrysler, Jr., New York and Warrenton, Virginia. By 1940-1951The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Purchased from Walter P. Chrysler, Jr., with Mrs. Simon Guggenheim Fund, 1951
[Ambroise Vollard, Paris]Galerie van Leer, Paris. [Likely purchased from Vollard] By 1930Mr. and Mrs. Sam A. Lewisohn, New York. Purchased from Galerie van Leer, June 1930 - 1952The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Sam A. Lewisohn Bequest, 1952
Ambroise Vollard, ParisGertrude and Leo Stein, Paris, by 1906 to 1913 Daniel Henry Kahnweiler, Galerie Simon, Paris The Paul von Mendelssohn-Bartholdy Collection, Berlin, by 1927; Elsa Lucy Lolo von Mendelssohn-Bartholdy (1899-1986), née von Lavergne-Peguilhen, later Countess von Kesselstatt, wife of Paul von Mendelssohn-Bartholdy (1875-1935), 1927 by gift upon marriage to at least July 7, 1934Galleries Thannhauser, Berlin, by August 31, 1935 William S. Paley, New York, purchased through Albert Skira, Geneva and Marie Harriman Gallery, New York, from Galleries Thannhauser, Berlin and Lucerne on August 28, 1936 until 1964The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift of William S. Paley, 1964
A member of the Russian Futurist group active in the early teens, Kazimir Malevich participated in numerous exhibitions, contributed to artists manifestos, designed theater sets and costumes, and collaborated with other artists, including Natalia Goncharova and Olga Rozanova, on the design and illustration of lithographed books. Between 1913 and 1930, he made more than eighty editioned works, many intended for book projects and primarily executed in lithography. Malevich's early style drew on a variety of native sources, including the lubok (inexpensive, popular prints), folk images and icons, as well as the Western European movements of Cubism and Futurism. In 1915 he exhibited the first works of Suprematism, an abstract style of painting that he pioneered, comprised of colored geometric forms on white backgrounds. As a supporter of the 1917 Revolution, Malevich sought ways to integrate art with utilitarian forms and practical functions through his group unovis (Affirmers of the New Art). His Suprematist designs were used in applied-arts projects, and even in decorations for the streets of Vitebsk. In 1918 his design for the program of an important state-sponsored conference on peasant poverty, held on the first anniversary of the October Revolution, won first prize. Malevich's Suprematist cover for the publication declares: "Proletarians of all Nations, Unite!" In 1920, while Director of the Vitebsk Art Institute, Malevich created Suprematism: 34 Drawings, which essentially served as a theoretical and visual textbook of Suprematism. In addition to a hand-lettered introduction, the book contains lithographs that comprise a visual survey of basic geometric elements and ways in which they could be combined. It is thought that the printing was executed by El Lissitzky, who had earlier been appointed by Marc Chagall to head the Institute's lithography workshop.
Amérique is a re-creation of a nineteenth-century Belgian map Celmins found in a shop. The artist used five printing plates, plus hand additions, to create the marked and stained facsimile, and she designed the antique-style frame.
Among other artists who emerged in the 1980s, Gober explores sexual and cultural identity. "Most of my sculptures," he has said, "have been memories remade, recombined, and filtered through my current experiences." As well as evoking difficult childhood memories, Gober's slightly distorted objects—at once familiar and strange—seem to reflect unease with the domestic rituals and lingering puritanical attitudes of the suburban middle class. His surreal wax body parts, so extremely detailed that they include actual human body hair, prompt contradictory feelings of terror and fascination. This combination of sensations is a response to the paradoxical phenomenon that Sigmund Freud called "the uncanny": Through a small change, something ordinary reveals a hidden strangeness, bringing out long-forgotten fears.
Among The Museum of Modern Art's holdings is a rich collection of contemporary Japanese textiles. Sublime and surprising, solidly anchored in material culture and at the same time representative of the latest technological innovations, these textiles are revolutionary in the way that they alter the habitual relationship between the shape of the body and the light and air around it. The collection includes the production of several notable designers, from Junichi Arai and Hideko Takahashi to Osamu Mita. None, however, is featured as often as Sudo, a disciple of Arai and a virtuoso in her own right. In 1984, Arai and Sudo cofounded Nuno Corporation, in Tokyo, and Arai introduced his new partner to the use of scanners and computers, providing her with a fresh palette of artistic possibilities. The Origami Pleat Scarf, which Sudo designed in collaboration with Mizue Okada, is just one example of the company's unique production.Emulating the Japanese art of folding paper, this delicate-looking scarf is creased repeatedly at sharp angles and then permanently pressed in a special heat-transfer pleating procedure. Its color gradation is achieved by sandwiching colored dye-transfer paper between the fabric and the outer paper during the heat-transfer process. The polyester retains memory of the pleats to such an extent that the three-dimensional scarf folds perfectly flat onto itself when dropped. The scarf represents the ideal balance between functionality, technological innovation, and art that the Museum seeks in its collection of design objects.
Among the numerous drawings Matisse made of women seen from behind are a group of 1909 works showing a model posed against the slatted wall of his new studio. This drawing, relating to the bas-relief sculpture Back (I), shows the model supporting her weight on one leg, her right foot hidden. The bold pen-and-ink hatchings are analogous to the firm contours Matisse cut with a chisel into the plaster surface of the sculpture.
Among the subjects of Simpson's art is the experience of African American women in contemporary American society, a topic that encompasses issues of race and gender. Since 1990 African American hairstyles, which, over the centuries, have taken on social and political implications, have been some of her motifs. Depicted here is a diverse group of wigs in an orderly presentation that suggests a lineup of scientific specimens. Many types of styles are represented, from the short, fuzzy-textured Afro at the upper left to a wig of long, silky blond hair near the upper right. Text panels interspersed among the wigs record Simpson's wide-ranging commentary on their use by women, entertainers, and transvestites. The wig's potential as an instrument for conformity, metamorphosis, and concealment is thereby underscored.Simpson has used the traditional format of the print portfolio in which a sequence of images produces a cumulative, narrative effect. The images have a tactile, suggestive quality as they isolate hair as an important aspect of self-image that affects a deeper sense of overall reality.
Among the techniques the Surrealists used to court the element of chance was decalcomania, a transfer process (first developed for nineteenth-century ceramic design) in which two sheets of paper, one bearing wet pigment, are pressed together. The textural compositions that result often evoke rocky topographies or watery landscapes. Jean credited the artist Oscar Domínguez with introducing decalcomania to the Surrealist circle. Referring to the work seen here, Jean recalled, "I myself experimented with Domínguez in 1936 on decalcomanias with 'premeditated interpretation', that is to say, with a certain meaning or shape predetermined by the use of stencils."  If the woman's profile was rendereddeliberately, her wild mane—which has the look of petrified wood—is the unplanned result of the process.
A Muslim prayer rug ensures that the space for prayer, which Muslims practice five times per day, is kept clean and separate from other activities. Ozenc's El Sajjadah points the praying person in the direction of Mecca, using an embedded compass module linked with electroluminescent printing on its surface; the carpet pattern grows brighter and brighter as it is turned in the correct direction.
An accomplished painter, printmaker, photographer, and stage designer, David Hockney began showcasing his talent as a draftsman while studying at his hometown's Bradford School of Art as a teenager. At London's Royal College of Art in the early 1960s, he worked in a style that combined figuration, abstraction, and text, which identified him with the British Pop art movement. His work, however, defies categorization. It consists of still lifes and portraits rendered with delicacy and frankness and, after moving to Los Angeles, has included bold, colorful images of California's sun-drenched settings. Rooted in his personal relationships, his homosexuality, and his literary interests and travels, Hockney's art is, above all, deeply autobiographical. Printmaking has played a central role in Hockney's practice, and many of his most significant early works take the form of narrative print series. The linearity of etching matches his natural inclination for drawing, and lithography allows him to explore dazzling color. He has also made editions with paper pulp and inventive prints using a photocopy machine. In all Hockney has created more than five hundred prints, collaborating with celebrated printers and workshops in Europe and America and also experimenting on his own. The artist's initial trip to New York, in 1961, inspired his first major group of etchings, A Rake's Progress, which reinterprets the famous cycle of eighteenth-century engravings by William Hogarth. With great wit and candor, Hockney's "rake" (himself) is a young artist and gay man struggling to find his way in New York. A few years later, after settling in Los Angeles, he completed a series of lithographs entitled A Hollywood Collection, which reflects the city's artificial beauty. Hockney's idea for an "instant art collection," this series includes printed illusionistic frames based on frames he saw at a shop next to Gemini Ltd., where the project was created.
An AIDS public service announcement produced by the international advocacy group Steps for the Future, Orlando Mesquita's short film The Ball presents a surprisingly lighthearted view of condom use in Africa. In a village in Mozambique, a man interrupts a group of boys playing soccer and accuses them of stealing his condoms to make soccer balls. Determined to carry on playing, the boys go off to buy a new condom for another ball. The ball is ingeniously constructed by wrapping the inflated condom first in a plastic bag and then in a piece of cloth, and tying it up with string. When they run out of string, the boys make use of a baby's jacket hanging out to dry on a clothesline, unraveling the wool from a loose strand. Mesquita has made more than thirty Þlms over a twenty–year career, including fiction features, documentaries, and educational programs, yet none have had quite as popular an impact as this whimsical piece of social advocacy.
An amateur astronomer and nature lover, Crotty makes meticulous drawings of night skies viewed through the telescope in his homemade observatory in Malibu, California. Sketching while gazing at the sky, the artist blends scientific objectivity with fiction, creating fantastic forms and bizarre landscapes. In their seeming infinitude his pictures radiate the awe Crotty feels when making his observations. A sense of the sublime is manifest in this globe's installation: viewers are outside the planet's atmosphere, gazing back.
An amateur astronomer and self–proclaimed nature lover, Crotty continuously makes meticulous drawings of stars, comets, asteroids, and planets as viewed from the telescope in his homemade observatory in Malibu, California. This ledger consists of five ink drawings of the night sky: as seen from the ground, through a telescope, as a map of constellations, and as a density study. Simultaneously reminiscent of nineteenth–century scientific illustrations and the repetitive patterns of Minimalist art, each page spread shows a different aspect of Crotty's drawing practice, which ranges from austere celestial maps to more mystical evening landscapes.
An artist of insatiable curiosity and restless creativity, Robert Rauschenberg came to attention at a fertile juncture in American art, as Abstract Expressionism wound down and Pop art appeared. His aesthetic strategy, embracing screenprint on canvas, assemblage, set design, and performance, is based on collage and juxtaposes objects and images from the everyday world to elicit their effects on each other and to stimulate an almost poetic response in the viewer. Rauschenberg's prints now number nearly one thousand, but he needed the cajoling of Tatyana Grosman to attempt printmaking, during the fledgling years of the now-renowned publisher and printer Universal Limited Art Editions (ULAE). His daring use of lithography appeared early on, when the stone for Accident broke in two while he was working on it. Undeterred, he retained the diagonal white gash through the composition, recording this event. When Accident won first prize at the prestigious Ljubljana Graphic Biennial in 1963, it established Rauschenberg, ULAE, and American printmaking in the forefront as never before.Rauschenberg continues to work at ULAE. Among his projects of the 1980s was the Soviet/American Array series, created for ROCI (Rauschenberg Overseas Culture Interchange) and including his own photographs of New York and Moscow. This undertaking, fostering cultural exchange in cities outside the usual contemporary art circuit, reflects Rauschenberg's broad interest in social causes, expressed in numerous benefit prints over the years on subjects from ecology to world peace. Among his prints from other workshops, sheer technical audacity marks those produced at Gemini G.E.L. His first project there, a self-portrait entitled Booster, was the largest hand-pulled print to date in 1967. Preview, an editioned assemblage of printed imagery and collaged paper bags on silk, epitomizes his provocative imagination and extends the definition of printmaking far beyond the traditional handheld artwork on paper.
An artist, playwright, set designer, and poet, Stettheimer led a Manhattan salon where she entertained, exhibited her work, and shared her poems with her favored circle of artists. In Family Portrait, II, she combines images of herself, her sisters (who ran the salon with her), and her mother with symbolic elements wittily representing their individual personality traits. Among those she chose for herself are the RCA building (30 Rockefeller Center, known today as the GE Building) and Radio City Music Hall, each identifiable by the text the artist has inscribed on it. In focusing on her family, the painting typifies Stettheimer's concern with the personal, which seems to have endlessly inspired her. Her attention to detail extended to choosing the frames that would best set off her vibrant paintings—in this case an unusual construction of white wicker.
An artist who excelled in a variety of mediums, Alberto Giacometti stated that he had developed his mature style as a sculptor, in part, through the process of drawing. His best-known works are elongated bronze figures either standing or striding. Their isolation and often haunting qualities have been interpreted in Existential terms, most notably by the philosopher Jean-Paul Sartre. The figures in his signature paintings and drawings, rendered within dense webs of sketchy lines, are also enigmatic. Giacometti created more than three hundred fifty prints, two-thirds of which appear in illustrated books and are collaborations with such friends as André Breton, Georges Bataille, and René Char. He worked in etching and lithography, mainly depicting people close to him or recording studio views of his own sculptures and paintings. His most active period as a printmaker coincided with his renewed focus on painting in the 1950s, when he received invitations from a variety of publishers, including Aimé Maeght of Paris, and Kornfeld and Klipstein of Bern. His introduction to intaglio printmaking occurred in the early 1930s during a brief stay at Stanley William Hayter's Atelier 17 in Paris, an experimental workshop and celebrated meeting place for artists. The result was two highly distinctive and rare engravings related directly to his sculpture of the period. To make Cubist Head, Giacometti gouged sharp angles and parallel lines into a copperplate, creating in two dimensions a fractured and faceted face similar to that of his sculpture of the same title, issued in marble and in bronze in 1934. In the print Hands Holding a Void, Giacometti comments on another of his sculptures, here surrounding it in an atmospheric field of ink tone that reads as an isolating void, made even more eerie by the random markings left from pits and scratches on the copperplate.
An artist who excelled in a variety of mediums, Alberto Giacometti stated that he had developed his mature style as a sculptor, in part, through the process of drawing. His best-known works are elongated bronze figures either standing or striding. Their isolation and often haunting qualities have been interpreted in Existential terms, most notably by the philosopher Jean-Paul Sartre. The figures in his signature paintings and drawings, rendered within dense webs of sketchy lines, are also enigmatic.Giacometti created more than three hundred fifty prints, two-thirds of which appear in illustrated books and are collaborations with such friends as André Breton, Georges Bataille, and René Char. He worked in etching and lithography, mainly depicting people close to him or recording studio views of his own sculptures and paintings. His most active period as a printmaker coincided with his renewed focus on painting in the 1950s, when he received invitations from a variety of publishers, including Aimé Maeght of Paris, and Kornfeld and Klipstein of Bern. His introduction to intaglio printmaking occurred in the early 1930s during a brief stay at Stanley William Hayter's Atelier 17 in Paris, an experimental workshop and celebrated meeting place for artists. The result was two highly distinctive and rare engravings related directly to his sculpture of the period. To make Cubist Head, Giacometti gouged sharp angles and parallel lines into a copperplate, creating in two dimensions a fractured and faceted face similar to that of his sculpture of the same title, issued in marble and in bronze in 1934. In the print Hands Holding a Void, Giacometti comments on another of his sculptures, here surrounding it in an atmospheric field of ink tone that reads as an isolating void, made even more eerie by the random markings left from pits and scratches on the copperplate.
An artist who has worked in performance, music, sculpture, and installation art, Kelley mines American vernacular culture in a practice that has been described as "an aesthetics of delinquency." Kelley claims that the materials in this piece are not meant to suggest childhood comforts but were chosen instead for their formal elements—the afghans, for example, for their abstract patterns.
Ancient stone circles survive at scattered sites in many parts of Long's native England, relics of the country's distant past. In evoking these local and age-old forms, Cornish Stone Circle bypasses the classical tradition of sculpture in favor of "primitive" art, an influence on artists since the early twentieth century. Long's art, however, also inflects more recent ideas. Like certain Minimalist sculptures, Cornish Stone Circle has no base or pedestal, no height to speak of, nor is it even an intact mass. More, its mass is mutable: the circle must be three meters in radius, and its fifty-two rough stones must be stably situated, evenly distributed and separated, and randomly arranged, but otherwise their placement is open to change. Long's most searching revision of the character of the art object, however, has to do with his relationship with the natural environment. Like other earthworks artists, he is attracted to outdoor, often remote, terrain, where he may pile stones, mark a path, or simply take a long walk; later he may exhibit photographs, maps, or written descriptions of these actions, for his work shares Conceptual art's concern with the different experiences conveyed by different visual and verbal systems. In this context, Cornish Stone Circle becomes not only a sculptural configuration but a way of representing a far-off place, through the presence of materials gathered there.
André Breton, the leader of the Surrealist group, assigned this work its title based on a meal he shared with Gorky, during which Breton associated an artichoke leaf with an owl. Both artists were members of the European artistic avant-garde living in exile in New York during World War II. Gorky's interest in unpremeditated or automatic gestures was aided by his use of thin, liquid paint, which he poured onto the canvas, allowing it to seep freely into the support. The shapes in this painting, while vaguely recognizable, never fully describe any one thing and therefore encourage free association— a mainstay of Surrealist intellectual activities.
André Level, ParisGeorge Leperrier, ParisMax Pellequer, Paris. By 1928George Eumorphopoulos / Eumorfopoulos, LondonJustin K. Thannhauser, New YorkThe Museum of Modern Art, New York. Purchased from Justin K. Thannhauser, with Mr. and Mrs. Werner E. Josten fund, 1956
André Masson. 1940 – at least 1944[Buchholz Gallery (Curt Valentin), New York. In or after 1944]Andrew Lyndon. [Purchased from Curt Valentin?]The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift of Andrew Lyndon, 1958
An influential Los Angeles painter, printmaker, and photographer, Edward Ruscha developed a vibrant signature style of combining words, images, objects, and landscapes in deadpan ways—sometimes humorous, sometimes sinister—that associated him first with Pop art in the 1960s and then with Conceptual art in the 1970s. Trained as a commercial illustrator, Ruscha had an early interest in comic books, graphic design, typography, and serial imagery that led him to produce a now landmark series of inexpensive, large-edition artist's books comprising black-and-white photographic essays on commonplace architecture and objects. In the late 1960s and early 1970s, he began focusing on traditional printmaking, which has remained a consistent and vital part of his artistic practice. Working in screenprint, lithography, etching, and sometimes utilizing unconventional organic substances instead of inks, Ruscha has completed more than three hundred prints and some twenty artist's books to date. The gasoline station is Ruscha's most iconic image. He began experimenting with the subject in his first artist's book, Twentysix Gasoline Stations (1963), which reproduces a series of banal photographs the artist took while driving on Route 66 between Los Angeles and his hometown of Oklahoma City. That year, converting an otherwise ordinary locale into a dramatic, even mysterious symbol of the American vernacular landscape, Ruscha created a monumental painting titled Standard Station, Amarillo, Texas, based on one of the photographs but with a radically foreshortened composition. A few years later he made this print, further exploring the nuances of his emblematic image. Using the medium of screenprint, Ruscha was able to achieve areas of solid, flat color, as well as sinuously blended colors made with the "split fountain" technique, one of the first fine-art applications of this commercial process that combines differently colored inks. Reusing the screens from the print, Ruscha continued to experiment with Standard Station, and eventually varied colors and compositions to create three additional printed versions.
Another World is a cinematic platformer game: the main character jumps and runs from platform to platform to avoid obstacles and keep moving forward. The player controls the central character, Lester (a human physicist displaced to an alien planet by an experiment gone awry), who can move forward, jump, or fight using his weapon, a laser pistol that has three functions: shooting, generating force fields, and penetrating walls. The game ends if either Lester or his alien friend is shot. Nothing external to the world is displayed on the screen (such as score or energy gauge), reinforcing the engagement of the player with the unfolding action. The characters communicate nonverbally, via gestures and actions, a rare feat in video games. With its groundbreaking use of advanced effects in sound and editing as well as graphics, the game has been acclaimed for its unique atmosphere and minimalist aesthetic. Chahi developed Another World independently, thus maintaining almost total creative control of the game, from its story to its box cover, and devoting painstaking attention to details.
Ant Farm, a group of artists and architects based in San Francisco, produced experimental work between 1968 and 1978. The group combined architecture, performance, happenings, sculpture, installation, and graphic design, and documented its activities on camera in the early days of video art, embracing the latest technologies to disseminate its scathing criticism of American culture and mass media.Ant Farm organized Media Burn, in which two “artist dummies” dressed as astronauts “drove” a customized 1959 Cadillac renamed the Phantom Dream Car at full speed into a wall of flaming television sets. Using the car once again as a cultural icon, Ant Farm addressed the pervasive presence of television in everyday life, affronting the same media they had invited to cover the event. The video is styled after news coverage of a space launch, including melodramatic prestunt interviews with the members of the group and an inspirational speech by a John F. Kennedy impersonator.
Ant Farm, a group of artists and architects based in San Francisco, produced experimental work between 1968 and 1978. The group combined architecture, performance, happenings, sculpture, installation, and graphic design, and documented its activities on camera in the early days of video art, embracing the latest technologies to disseminate its scathing criticism of American culture and mass media. In 1974 Ant Farm staged Cadillac Ranch Show, its most famous intervention, in Amarillo, Texas, along U.S. Route 66. Ten different models of Cadillac cars were half-buried in a row, nose-first in the ground, at a sixty-degree angle corresponding to that of the Great Pyramid of Giza, in Egypt. Each car features one step in the evolution of the tail fin from 1949 to 1963 in a statement about innovation in a technological era, the American dream, and the absurdity of consumerism. The cars are periodically repainted; they rarely last more than a few hours without new graffiti. The video alternates between footage of the making of the installation and sequences in which members of the group examine each Cadillac in detail, depicting its value as a design object at once wonderful and grotesque and as an expression of the values of American society.
Anular—the word means to nullify or invalidate—presents a copy of an early Spanish constitution displayed as a single-spaced typewritten manuscript overlaid with Ullán's short poetic phrases and Tàpies's cryptic alphabet letters and symbol-like forms. Tàpies's super-imposed letters, looking like graffiti strewn across the pages, derive from the first character of the poet's adjacent words. Frequently portions of the text are torn, turned upside-down, or even obscured by Tàpies's "graffiti," possibly suggesting a disregard for the constitutional rights of individuals. The overall visual effect produces a sense of contradiction and dissent, while also implying an act of nullification. Tàpies had lived through the many years of Franco's rule in Spain, and, at the time of the book's execution, Ullán was living in exile due to his refusal to serve in the military.As seen in the four-page spread displayed here, each sheet is attached at its left and right edges to the next sheet. The pages are assembled in an accordion fold, making possible various panoramas. Pages can be turned one by one in the conventional manner, revealing a double-page spread; the continuous ensemble can be completely unfolded to show the entirety of text and images; or selected segments can be opened and spread out, as here. The resulting effect of this unusual book format is the creation of a world of words, an ongoing dialogue between painter and poet.
A painter and printmaker, Fang is part of the Cynical Realist generation of Chinese artists. He grew up during the devastation and oppression of the Cultural Revolution (1966 – 76) and then experienced life in its aftermath, but he became disillusioned when the push for democracy ended with violence in Tiananmen Square in 1989. Fang often uses subtle humor and sarcasm to hint at the absurdities and uncertainties of life in contemporary China. His compositions are typically based on the figures of anonymous, shaven-headed men, composed in ways that create ambiguous social and emotional readings. For example, in 2003.2.1 is the crowd looking up and exclaiming with awe or grimacing in fear?Following a 1995 trip to Norway, Fang adopted Edvard Munch's technique of cutting his woodblocks into pieces like a jigsaw puzzle, inking them separately in different colors, and then reassembling them for printing. The scale of Fang's work, however, is virtually unprecedented in printmaking. Made up of seven contiguous thirteen-foot vertical scrolls, 2003.2.1 is a woodcut mural. This combination of the traditional Chinese scroll format with the bold figuration of Communist propaganda posters and a deliberate rawness inspired by modern Western woodcuts embodies an extraordinary moment of transition in Chinese art and culture.
A painter and prolific printmaker, Jacques Villon made his first print with the guidance of his grandfather, an engraver. He was a member of an artistic family that included siblings Marcel Duchamp, Raymond Duchamp-Villon, and Suzanne Duchamp. Villon started his own career designing illustrations for Parisian journals, as well as posters and prints in the style largely made popular by Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec in the 1890s. With the help of printer Eugène Delâtre and publisher Edmond Sagot, he produced nearly two hundred fifty intaglio prints by 1910, often working through multiple states, combining techniques and printing multicolor or single-color variants. Renée, Three Quarters View is one of forty intaglio prints from 1910 to 1913 that mark a point of transition in Villon's overall oeuvre toward greater abstraction. At this time he traveled in a circle of artists working in a Cubist style, which led to a change in his approach to figure-ground relationships, relying on straight, parallel, and cross-hatched lines to present his subjects as faceted volumes in flattened space. As was often his practice, Villon returned here to an earlier subject, a family member whom he had rendered as a seductively posed child years before. This version of Renée as a dour adult is closely based on Villon's painting of the same title and date. It also relates to an earlier drypoint in which Renée faces forward, as well as to two smaller, subsequently etched versions of this sitter. For the remainder of his five-decade career, Villon continued to create intaglio prints. Sought after for his skills as a printmaker, he also made color aquatints and lithographs after paintings by established artists as a means of earning income. In all, he completed seven hundred prints, including one hundred such reproductive prints and nearly seventy-five illustrations for book projects.
A painter, muralist, illustrator, and theorist, Stuart Davis was one of the first American artists to incorporate elements of European modernism introduced at the 1913 Armory Show in New York. Both his teacher, Robert Henri, and his supervisor at the Socialist journal The New Masses, artist John Sloan, taught him to record everyday life in a realist mode. Following the Armory Show, however, Davis began to experiment with reconciling abstraction and representation. Davis's entire printed oeuvre consists of twenty-seven works, mostly lithographs, created between 1915 and 1964. While in Paris in the late 1920s, he made his first prints, most likely at the renowned lithography workshop of Edmond Desjobert, where other American artists gathered. When Davis returned to the United States in 1931, he began work on five lithographs. They represent his mature style and his most accomplished efforts in printmaking. Exploiting lithography's potential for rich blacks and contrasting grays against a background of white paper, Davis suggests a sense of visual syncopation in his overall compositional structure. This creative manipulation of the medium was probably achieved with the guidance of the distinguished American printer, George C. Miller. Davis's ability to express the dynamic atmosphere of the American scene is evident in all three prints. Planar and curvilinear abstract forms are combined with references to commercial culture. Barber Shop Chord and Theatre on the Beach, both amalgams of the imaginary and the real, include motifs from Davis's seaside retreat in Gloucester, Massachusetts, but the latter also incorporates the facade of a Parisian theater and a figure suggesting a cellist. Sixth Avenue El refers primarily to New York City. These lithographs were exhibited at the Downtown Gallery, one of the primary venues of the day for contemporary American art, and received critical acclaim.Originally from TextEntryID 69583 (TextTypeID 127)he began work on five lithographs, three of which are illustrated here
A painter, muralist, illustrator, and theorist, Stuart Davis was one of the first American artists to incorporate elements of European modernism introduced at the 1913 Armory Show in New York. Both his teacher, Robert Henri, and his supervisor at the Socialist journal The New Masses, artist John Sloan, taught him to record everyday life in a realist mode. Following the Armory Show, however, Davis began to experiment with reconciling abstraction and representation. Davis's entire printed oeuvre consists of twenty-seven works, mostly lithographs, created between 1915 and 1964. While in Paris in the late 1920s, he made his first prints, most likely at the renowned lithography workshop of Edmond Desjobert, where other American artists gathered. When Davis returned to the United States in 1931, he began work on five lithographs, three of which are illustrated here. They represent his mature style and his most accomplished efforts in printmaking. Exploiting lithography's potential for rich blacks and contrasting grays against a background of white paper, Davis suggests a sense of visual syncopation in his overall compositional structure. This creative manipulation of the medium was probably achieved with the guidance of the distinguished American printer, George C. Miller. Davis's ability to express the dynamic atmosphere of the American scene is evident in all three prints. Planar and curvilinear abstract forms are combined with references to commercial culture. Barber Shop Chord and Theatre on the Beach, both amalgams of the imaginary and the real, include motifs from Davis's seaside retreat in Gloucester, Massachusetts, but the latter also incorporates the facade of a Parisian theater and a figure suggesting a cellist. Sixth Avenue El refers primarily to New York City. These lithographs were exhibited at the Downtown Gallery, one of the primary venues of the day for contemporary American art, and received critical acclaim.
A painter, muralist, illustrator, and theorist, Stuart Davis was one of the first American artists to incorporate elements of European modernism introduced at the 1913 Armory Show in New York. Both his teacher, Robert Henri, and his supervisor at the Socialist journal The New Masses, artist John Sloan, taught him to record everyday life in a realist mode. Following the Armory Show, however, Davis began to experiment with reconciling abstraction and representation. Davis's entire printed oeuvre consists of twenty-seven works, mostly lithographs, created between 1915 and 1964. While in Paris in the late 1920s, he made his first prints, most likely at the renowned lithography workshop of Edmond Desjobert, where other American artists gathered. When Davis returned to the United States in 1931, he began work on five lithographs, three of which are illustrated here. They represent his mature style and his most accomplished efforts in printmaking. Exploiting lithography's potential for rich blacks and contrasting grays against a background of white paper, Davis suggests a sense of visual syncopation in his overall compositional structure. This creative manipulation of the medium was probably achieved with the guidance of the distinguished American printer, George C. Miller.Davis's ability to express the dynamic atmosphere of the American scene is evident in all three prints. Planar and curvilinear abstract forms are combined with references to commercial culture. Barber Shop Chord and Theatre on the Beach, both amalgams of the imaginary and the real, include motifs from Davis's seaside retreat in Gloucester, Massachusetts, but the latter also incorporates the facade of a Parisian theater and a figure suggesting a cellist. Sixth Avenue El refers primarily to New York City. These lithographs were exhibited at the Downtown Gallery, one of the primary venues of the day for contemporary American art, and received critical acclaim.
Apart from the human cost, land mines destabilize economic prospects. They have a paralyzing effect on communities, contaminating fertile fields, cutting off access to markets, schools, and water supplies, and holding people hostage in their own villages or displacing them from their homes. Several nongovernmental organizations are focused on disarming these weapons in order to allow affected communities to return to life without fear. The Spider Boot, raised on a platform, provides enough distance from a detonating mine to deflect shrapnel away from the body. The boot also incorporates self-sacrificing materials, such as aluminum honeycomb encased in a V-shaped steel container on the underside of the platform to absorb the impact of the detonation.
A photogram is a picture made on photographic paper without the aid of a camera. To make this one, Man Ray exposed the paper to light at least three times. Each time a different set of objects acted as a stencil: a pair of hands, a pair of heads kissing, and two darkroom trays, which seem almost to kiss each other with their corner spouts. With each exposure, the paper darkened where it was not masked."It is impossible to say which planes of the picture are to be interpreted as existing closer or deeper in space. The picture is a visual invention: an image without a real-life model to which we can compare it," notes curator John Szarkowski. A Surrealist might have said, instead, that it discloses a reality all the more precious because it is otherwise invisible.Man Ray claimed to have invented the photogram not long after he emigrated from New York to Paris in 1921. Although, in fact, the practice had existed since the earliest days of photography, he was justified in the artistic sense, for in his hands the photogram was not a mechanical copy but an unpredictable pictorial adventure. He called his photograms "rayographs."
A pioneer in video art since the 1960s, Paik believes he may be particularly suited to this medium by his training in music. "I think I understand time better than the video artists who came from painting-sculpture," says Paik, because "music is the manipulation of time. . . . As painters understand abstract space, I understand abstract time"—and time is integral to video art, which must unfold in a temporal duration. Paik's art often uses or refers to music and musical instruments. Meanwhile he has also built structures out of or incorporating television sets, so that his video images become elements in an overall sculptural configuration. Paik is a veteran of the Dada-inspired Fluxus group, and his work can be cheerfully anarchic. This untitled piece, though, is elegiac in tone. An upright player piano is piled with fifteen televisions. Wired to these sets are small closed-circuit cameras trained on the instrument's mechanism, so that as the piano, unmanned, plays ragtime, its workings appear on the screens. We also see, on one monitor at the sculpture's top and on another at its foot, the image of the late John Cage. A composer and aesthetic thinker who embraced chance, accident, and a certain playfulness of approach, Cage was influential for many postwar artists, including Paik.
A pioneer of Conceptual art who also trained as a pianist, Darboven created a notational visual language based primarily on numbers and indecipherable script. Here, for the first time, musical notations dominate her project.  The scores are derived from a set of correspondences the artist established between numbers and notes; working with a composer, she orchestrated and recorded them. Visitors can hear her compositions alongside their visual equivalents.
A place he could invite Picasso—this is how the scientist Jonas Salk, developer of the polio vaccine, described his dream for a new laboratory complex when he first met Louis Kahn to discuss the program. Salk wanted a place where scientists, humanists, and artists could work together toward a greater understanding of life's processes. This panoramic elevation, rendered in Kahn's favorite medium of charcoal on yellow tracing paper, portrays the final version of the Institute on its dramatic site: an expansive, irregular landscape on coastal bluffs overlooking the Pacific Ocean. On the right or eastern edge, amid a grove of trees, low-lying laboratories hug the land. On the western edge of the site the so-called Meeting House perches on the bluff. Inspired in part by his admiration of medieval monasteries and cloisters, Kahn envisioned this complex as a kind of forum for social and intellectual interaction. Kahn's monochromatic rendering is well suited to convey the qualities of his favored construction material of poured-in-place concrete. One can discern some of the buildings" details: the scientists" individual studies, the stair towers punctuating the long laboratories, the idiosyncratic screen walls with their lunettes. But more significant is the drawing's sense of monumentality and awe. The Salk Institute is an inspired realm, and one of Kahn's finest works. Here this deeply philosophical architect not only created a place reflecting the interdependence of the scientific and the humanistic disciplines but seems to have satisfied his lifelong ambition to give shape to the unmeasurable.
Appelt was a singer in the Berlin opera before turning to the visual arts.  Since then, dramatic performative actions have provided the underpinning of his work in film and photography, which explores the passage of time and the process of decay.
Arata Isozaki's design for the Nara Centennial Hall was the winning entry in an international competition in 1992. The program required three principal spaces, respectively accommodating 100, 500, and 2,000 people, and all flexible enough to serve multiple purposes, from concerts to conventions. The hall was to be the centerpiece of a series of structures planned for the city and prefecture of Nara, the master plan for which was drawn up by Kisho Kurokawa. Isozaki's main structure takes the form of a gigantic ellipse that extends the length of the site. In the sketch plan the ellipse is first set along the axis of the city's preexisting grid, then is rotated twenty-three degrees, forming an entrance hall parallel to an adjacent railway station. The sculptural form tapers gently toward the roof (a vast field of glass-tube solar collectors). Though the form of the building is abstract, its curving profile and ponderous presence relate to the monumental roof forms of Nara's most notable monument, the Todaiji Temple, constructed in 734 A.D. Its exterior skin, sheathed in zinc and gray-ceramic tile, also recalls the dull luster of the traditional gray ibushi-style roofs of Todaiji and other important temple structures. The sketch and the computer-generated drawing, both of which appeared in an exhibition at The Museum of Modern Art in 1992–93, together show the full range of graphic techniques available to Isozaki at the time. The sketch portrays the signature dimension of architectural design in its most generative form; the computer drawing is less personal, depicting not the act of generation but the end result of a long design process. Its cool tones and even surface render the qualities of the ceramic-tile skin, and provided a visual understanding of the total design well before construction was to begin. (Essay also meant to accompany 147.1993)
A red opaque rectangle stands out among bands of muted browns, greens, violets, and blues, which dynamically interact to suggest built structures or geographic formations. Klee's trip to Egypt in the winter of 1928–29 inspired a number of striated compositions, a response in part to the stratified cliffs of the Nile Valley and the long strips of tilled fields he saw there. These works "moved far from Nature," he said, "and found their way back to reality." While the work is apparently abstract, the variation within the simple formal palette of line and color constructs depth and space and even evokes a fire aflame in a desert at day's end.
A renowned graphic designer in Venezuela, Leufert was also a printmaker, draftsman, photographer, painter, art teacher, and museum curator. His strong interest in printmaking and draftsmanship led to the founding of the Department of Modern Prints and Drawings at the Caracas Museum of Fine Arts and the establishment of the Art Graphic Workshop, also in Caracas, two initiatives that played an important role in the constitution of modern graphic art in Venezuela.Considered one of Leufert's most important print series, this work incorporates both the geometric and organic elements of his artistic vocabulary. In the title, nenias means "elegies," and Leufert pays homage here to an indigenous Venezuelan and Brazilian tribe, the Yanomami, whose artwork served as a source for his formal language.
A river of raw canvas cuts across the vast expanse of this orange painting. "I frequently leave areas of raw, unprimed canvas unpainted," Frankenthaler has said. "That 'negative' space has just as active a role as the 'positive' painted space. The negative spaces maintain shapes of their own and are not empty.” In this work, the artist experimented with different ways to produce line: the thin, spindly black lines that radiate from the central cluster of shapes are drawn, but she also used color to create line, as the edges of the orange paint demonstrate. In these subtle manipulations of line, color, and canvas, Chairman of the Board is a meditation on the formal qualities of painting itself.
Armleder was influenced by Fluxus, the irreverent art movement of the 1960s and 1970s, but was also awed by the Suprematist painting of Kazimir Malevich, one of the founders of abstract art in the early twentieth century. Armleder remembers visiting MoMA as a child and being captivated by Malevich's Suprematist Composition: White on White of 1918.
Arnulf Rainer's paintings and prints have drawn on a range of figurative and abstract vocabularies. Although not officially a member of the Viennese Actionists, Rainer is often linked to that group because of his similarly performative approach to creating works of art, and the violent and transformative aura of his imagery. As a printmaker, he has experimented with a variety of techniques, completing more than five hundred works to date. While many of his earlier prints were lithographs, he has most recently focused intensely on etching and drypoint. Deeply influenced by the Parisian Surrealists as a young artist, Rainer favored grotesque and fantastic imagery, and experimented with various methods for accessing the unconscious, including automatist drawing and painting techniques. His later practice of concealing his own photographic self-portrait behind a layer of frenzied abstract markings has been viewed by some critics as an acknowledgment of the unspoken, harsh realities of postwar Austria. Even in his completely abstract work, as seen here, Rainer's vigorous strokes seem to block out an invisible underlying presence. To create the forms in Greens and Blue Nest he obsessively marked a printing plate with a densely layered network of etched and drypoint lines, the vigor and tactility of which seem to refer back to the strength and presence of his own hand, arm, and body. Their titles suggest figurative content, imbuing these abstract masses with hints of animation and individual personalities.
Arnulf Rainer's paintings and prints have drawn on a range of figurative and abstract vocabularies. Although not officially a member of the Viennese Actionists, Rainer is often linked to that group because of his similarly performative approach to creating works of art, and the violent and transformative aura of his imagery. As a printmaker, he has experimented with a variety of techniques, completing more than five hundred works to date. While many of his earlier prints were lithographs, he has most recently focused intensely on etching and drypoint. Deeply influenced by the Parisian Surrealists as a young artist, Rainer favored grotesque and fantastic imagery, and experimented with various methods for accessing the unconscious, including automatist drawing and painting techniques. His later practice of concealing his own photographic self-portrait behind a layer of frenzied abstract markings has been viewed by some critics as an acknowledgment of the unspoken, harsh realities of postwar Austria. Even in his completely abstract work, Rainer's vigorous strokes seem to block out an invisible underlying presence. To create the forms in Greens and Blue Nest he obsessively marked a printing plate with a densely layered network of etched and drypoint lines, the vigor and tactility of which seem to refer back to the strength and presence of his own hand, arm, and body. Their titles suggest figurative content, imbuing these abstract masses with hints of animation and individual personalities.
Around 1963 Oiticica began work on his series titled Bólides (Fireballs), one of the most distinctive, unique, and inventive sculptural models made in the Americas during the second half of the twentieth century. These works represent one of the three categories of works produced by the artist at the end of his career: Bólides, Penetrables, and Parangolés. The Bólides are structures made of painted wood or glass containing raw pigment, stones, and textiles. The Penetrables are small labyrinths of painted wood that can be entered, or penetrated, by the spectator. The Parangolés, or "capes," are complex and colorful carnivalesque costumes that were meant to be worn or held by the spectator, therefore eliminating the distance between the work and the public. These three series embody a revolutionary conception of artworks as significant vehicles for the human body and as bodies themselves, filled with living, critical, or troubling materials.
A. R. Penck is among the first generation of artists that was greatly shaped by the historical, economic, and cultural rift that occurred in postwar Germany. Born Ralf Winkler, Penck lived under the totalitarian government of East Germany until he emigrated to the West in 1980. He began painting at the age of ten but was repeatedly rejected from state art academies as his work was not in line with the state-approved style of Socialist Realism. In response to this rejection, Penck studied reproductions of works by Rembrandt and Picasso, establishing his reputation as a self-taught artist, filmmaker, jazz musician, and poet, and eventually smuggled his works to West Germany for exhibition under various pseudonyms, including A. R. Penck, which became his primary alias. Penck is best known for the codified, schematic vocabulary of "standarts" he developed in the late 1960s. Comprised of graffiti-style stick figures and symbols, this pictorial language was inspired by Penck's study of the history of communication from ancient cave drawings to cybernetics. Designed as a series of "direct symbols," his pictographs were a means of addressing social and political issues, as well as those of identity and rationality. Along with artist friends Georg Baselitz and Jörg Immendorff, Penck displayed an enthusiasm for the woodcut medium, which proved ideally suited to his bold, Neo-Expressionist style, as evidenced by prints such as Nightvision. Although he first started making small printed editions for personal use while living in East Germany, Penck began producing them in larger numbers after emigrating to the West. He has made approximately four hundred prints to date in lithography, etching, screenprint, and woodcut.
Arp participated in the Dada movement in Zurich during World War I, creating collages such as this one that privilege chance over artistic intention. This work consists of fragments of colored paper arranged in a random configuration. The squares that swarm this collage were torn from sheets of colored paper. By using his hands to rip the paper instead of a more precise tool, the artist surrendered an increased level of control, embracing the jagged contours of the squares.
Art dealer and print enthusiast Daniel-Henry Kahnweiler commissioned Georges Braque to execute the large intaglio print Fox in 1911, at the same time that he asked Pablo Picasso to make a print using the same size plate. Cubism was a radical new style being created by these two artists as a collaborative effort, and this style is evident in Fox, a café still life in which Braque used the drypoint technique to fragment the forms by means of short, spontaneous, staccato lines and cross-hatchings. Textual components such as the word "FOX" make reference to an English-style bar frequented by the Cubist poets and painters, while "Old Tom Gin" refers to the central motif of the still life, a bottle of gin. Other recognizable elements—a tabletop and drawer, a playing card with a heart, and numbers that could refer to the slang term "75," for cheating at dice, or "15" centimes in a saucer—are also found in some contemporaneous, related paintings by Braque. In all, Braque made ten prints in the Cubist style, of which only Fox and one other were published in editions at the time. (The other eight prints were issued in the 1950s, when there was a greater demand for Braque's work.) The artist resumed printmaking in the 1930s, at which time his subjects reflected the influence of Surrealism. A prime example is the book Théogonie, in which Braque used an arabesque etched line that reflects the automatic drawing of the Surrealists. In the last decades of his life, printmaking continued to interest him. Of the three hundred printed compositions he created, primarily in his later years, nearly two hundred were for illustrated books.Originally from TextEntryID 69294 (TextTypeID 127)same time that he asked Pablo Picasso to make a print using the same size plate (see page 19)
Artist and critic Hito Steyerl's video works explore how images are produced, circulated, and shared. The artist has referred to images as a "condensation of social forces," suggesting that through them we can trace the underlying systems of the contemporary world. In this satirical take on instructional films, Steyerl demonstrates several tongue-in-cheek strategies for remaining "unseen" in a world subject to new, sophisticated means of surveillance—pointing to the ways in which our technologies encroach on physical experience. Much of the work was shot on a desert site riddled with photo calibration targets used by the military to hone the focus of airplane cameras. Acts of war are therefore mediated by digital tools; Steyerl drives this point home by superimposing a computer desktop onto the desert landscape, underscoring the links between economies of violence, communication, and entertainment. In her words, "How do people disappear in an age of total over-visibility? . . . Are people hidden by too many images? Do they go hide amongst other images? Do they become images?"
As a copy of a man's leg and foot, this work is strikingly real: its fleshy waxen skin, clad in leather shoe and in cotton pant and sock, sprouts actual human hair. Exactness like this slides over into the unsettling, a macabre tone amplified by the leg's placement, its owner having presumably collapsed to the floor—and then, too, he has only one leg, which issues from the wall, as if the architecture had eaten him. For some, it may also have a subtle fetishistic eroticism, inasmuch as it focuses on a narrow band of the body where men routinely and unselfconsciously show their nakedness.Many of the artists who emerged alongside Gober in the 1980s were interested in the modern communications media, or in quoting from art history. Gober, by contrast, insists on the handmade quality of his sculpture, and although his works can remind us of earlier art (this one, for example, may recall the body fragments in the sculpture of Auguste Rodin, or the living disembodied arms bearing candelabra in Jean Cocteau's film La Belle et la béte, of 1946), their mood of displaced normalcy transforms any such references. These works often evoke the paradoxical phenomenon that Sigmund Freud called "the uncanny"—something ordinary that, through even a slight disorientation, reveals a hidden strangeness, bringing out long-forgotten fears and collapsing long-established certainties.
As a painter, sculptor, graphic designer, photographer, filmmaker, theorist, and teacher, László Moholy-Nagy was a virtual Renaissance man of modernism. After emigrating from Hungary following a Bolshevik coup in 1919, he lived from 1920 until 1923 in Berlin. There his experience of Dadaism, de Stijl, and Russian Constructivism influenced his own revolutionary ideas about space, time, motion, and light. In 1923 he joined the faculty of the Bauhaus in Weimar (and later in Dessau) and was instrumental in transforming the school from a crafts-workshop model into a center for industrial design and production. His innovative typography and page layouts for a series of Bauhaus books (1925-30) set a new standard for modern graphic design. Similarly remarkable were his poster designs, in which he placed different typefaces, type sizes, and geometric forms in imaginative arrangements. His experimental photographs and photograms were also influential. After leaving the Bauhaus in 1928, Moholy-Nagy practiced design in Berlin, Amsterdam, and London. In 1937 he immigrated to the United States to direct the New Bauhaus in Chicago, and a year later founded his own school of design. Moholy-Nagy's involvement with printmaking was never as extensive as his design work or photography, although he did make several small geometric woodcuts, linoleum cuts, and drypoints between 1919 and 1925. His most monumental print project was Constructions, a relatively rare example of Constructivist printmaking. It was the last of six portfolios by different artists published in 1923 by the bookseller Ludwig Ey in conjunction with Eckart von Sydow, artistic director of the Kestner-Gesellschaft, a contemporary art institute founded in Hannover in 1916. Constructions' compositions of intersecting planes and floating shapes are related to Moholy-Nagy's abstract paintings and his groundbreaking kinetic assemblage of metal and transparent plastic, Light-Space Modulator (1922-30). In the plate shown, for example, the gradations of tone in the overlapping strips and half-moons suggest transparency, depth, and motion.
As a painter, sculptor, graphic designer, photographer, filmmaker, theorist, and teacher, László Moholy-Nagy was a virtual Renaissance man of modernism. After emigrating from Hungary following a Bolshevik coup in 1919, he lived from 1920 until 1923 in Berlin. There his experience of Dadaism, de Stijl, and Russian Constructivism influenced his own revolutionary ideas about space, time, motion, and light. In 1923 he joined the faculty of the Bauhaus in Weimar (and later in Dessau) and was instrumental in transforming the school from a crafts-workshop model into a center for industrial design and production. His innovative typography and page layouts for a series of Bauhaus books (1925–30) set a new standard for modern graphic design. Similarly remarkable were his poster designs, in which he placed different typefaces, type sizes, and geometric forms in imaginative arrangements. His experimental photographs and photograms were also influential. After leaving the Bauhaus in 1928, Moholy-Nagy practiced design in Berlin, Amsterdam, and London. In 1937 he immigrated to the United States to direct the New Bauhaus in Chicago, and a year later founded his own school of design. Moholy-Nagy's involvement with printmaking was never as extensive as his design work or photography, although he did make several small geometric woodcuts, linoleum cuts, and drypoints between 1919 and 1925. His most monumental print project was Constructions, a relatively rare example of Constructivist printmaking. It was the last of six portfolios by different artists published in 1923 by the bookseller Ludwig Ey in conjunction with Eckart von Sydow, artistic director of the Kestner-Gesellschaft, a contemporary art institute founded in Hannover in 1916. Constructions' compositions of intersecting planes and floating shapes are related to Moholy-Nagy's abstract paintings and his groundbreaking kinetic assemblage of metal and transparent plastic, Light-Space Modulator (1922–30). In the plate shown, for example, the gradations of tone in the overlapping strips and half-moons suggest transparency, depth, and motion.
As a rectangular plane to be viewed from the front, Sky Cathedral has the pictorial quality of a painting—perhaps one of the preceding decade's Abstract Expressionist canvases, which share its mural scale. But this sculpture in relief commands a layered depth. Its intricacy lies in both the method of its construction—it is made of shallow open boxes fitted together in a jigsawlike stack—and those boxes' contents, the salvaged wood bits and pieces with which Nevelson filled many of her works. These include moldings, dowels, spindles, chair parts, architectural ornaments, and scroll-sawed fragments. Nevelson makes this material into a high wall variegated by a play of flatness and recession, straight lines and curves, overlaps and vacancies, that has been likened to the faceting of Cubism and has an absorbing visual complexity.A Surrealist artist might have shared Nevelson's relish for curious bric-à-brac, but might also have arranged such a collection in jarring and disorienting juxtapositions. Nevelson, by contrast, paints every object and box the same dully glowing black, unifying them visually while also obscuring their original identities. The social archaeology suggested by the objects' individual histories and functions, then, is muted but not erased; it is as if we were looking at the wall of a library, in which all of the books had been translated into another language.Sky Cathedral. 1958
As a result of the shifting of its economic base from manufacturing to services, plus deeply rooted social issues that culminated in race riots during the mid-1990s, the city of Bradford began to rethink itself in 2003. Part of a mission by civic-minded individuals from the public and private sectors to find ways to revitalize the city and improve quality of life, Alsop Ltd. designed a twenty-year plan to promote new development by improving the public areas of the city. Unlike urban-planning initiatives that add buildings to the city fabric, this plan calls for the demolition of buildings to create a large park connecting several neighborhoods to the city center, where no significant public space had previously existed. The city hopes that the increased pedestrian traffic will encourage new retail and entertainment activities to develop over time. The master plan, both a design solution and a response to a social situation, allows for collective ambition.
As a sculptor who often worked with metal, Bontecou found etching—which requires scratching into copperplates—an appealing medium. The linear quality of etching mirrors the wire armatures of her sculptures, and the broad granular areas of aquatint echo the textured fabrics she stretched around these wire forms.
As a student at the Academy of Fine Arts Vienna, Kammerer won the triennial Rosenbaum Prize at the end of his second year, with this project for a royal hunting tent. Intended as a temporary ceremonial structure, the three-sided bamboo and canvas construction was designed to be a lavish representation of monarchy rather than a purely functional object. Kammerer's symbolic architectural language includes sculptural papyrus-leaf motifs and silk tapestries depicting hunting scenes lining the tent's interior. Stenciled patterning adorns the exterior walls. Kammerer was a student of the Austrian architect Otto Wagner, whose instruction in the incorporation of art, architecture, and design within a Gesamtkunstwerk—a “total work of art”—is evident in the aesthetic qualities of this meticulously wrought drawing. Kammerer went on to become a renowned painter and architect.
As a student at the National Preparatory School in the early 1920s, O'Gorman often stopped to watch José Clemente Orozco and Diego Rivera creating murals there. Although trained as an architect (he famously designed a modernist home—two buildings connected by a bridge—for Rivera and Frida Kahlo), O'Gorman left his thriving practice in 1935 to commit himself to painting. This is one of the many paintings of the Mexican countryside he made using tempera paint—a medium, popular in medieval and early Renaissance art, capable of producing the rich details O'Gorman desired. He presents a bird's-eye view of a landscape that held personal importance to him: his Irish father, an amateur painter, had immigrated to Mexico to work in the mining industry. O'Gorman translated his love of Mexico's arid topography into not only his paintings but also large stone mosaics he made from rocks collected throughout the country.
A second-generation Abstract Expressionist, Sam Francis was one of the most dedicated and prolific printmakers of his time. Working in lithography, etching, and screenprint, he completed more than five hundred editions as well as hundreds of monotypes. In 1970 he opened his own print workshop, The Litho Shop, in Santa Monica, which allowed him to experiment as freely as his interests dictated, and also to support projects of other printmakers, enabling them to share in his experience and technical expertise. Francis brought a worldly and intellectual spirit to his art. Although he eventually settled in California, he traveled widely and lived for extended periods of time in France, Switzerland, Japan, Thailand, and Indonesia. From these locales he absorbed aesthetic and cultural ideas, as evidenced by his diverse artistic inspirations, including Henri Matisse, Dada and Surrealism, Eastern philosophy and religion, and the psychoanalytic theories of Carl Jung. In both his paintings and his prints, Francis remained a steadfast abstractionist. Working in a spontaneous, unpremeditated fashion, he created on a large scale in a vivid palette using a personal vocabulary of biomorphic forms, loose brushstrokes, and an astounding variety of drips and splatters, some controlled and some left to chance. Francis worked at most major American and international print workshops: Universal Limited Art Editions, whose founder, Tatyana Grosman, first introduced Francis to lithography in 1959; Emil Matthieu in Zurich; Tamarind Lithography Workshop; and Gemini G.E.L., where he made the greatest number of prints, more than sixty. Benefiting from his ongoing collaboration with various master printers at each of these venues, Francis exploited the possibilities inherent in the color printmaking process, in which each color must be printed from a separate stone or plate. He often created compositions by varying the order in which matrices were printed, or recombining different ones to make new images.
A self–taught artist, Sobel invented her own painting process. According to her son, "she would prepare a ground, which would invariably suggest or trigger some 'idea' for her, whose sudden conception was matched by an equally rapid execution. In her efforts to pin down her conception she would pour the paint, tip the canvas, and blow the wet lacquer." She made Milky Way quickly and spontaneously, achieving a jewel–like, allover surface by using fast-drying enamel paint. Her automatic technique has been likened to those of highly theoretical avant-garde groups like the Surrealists. She responded, "I only paint what I feel."
A seminal figure among European avant-garde artists of the 1920s, Kurt Schwitters participated in the Expressionist and Dada movements in Germany and in the international phenomenon known as Constructivism. The printed word—its appearance, meaning, and sound—was a constant source of inspiration for Schwitters. He used printed and stamped letters in his collages and poems, and by the mid-1920s had become a successful graphic designer. Schwitters's involvement with traditional printmaking techniques, however, was limited, as he focused more on ephemeral printed projects. In 1918, after serving in World War I, Schwitters began publishing his poetry in the Expressionist journal Der Sturm and associating with the artists surrounding this journal and gallery of the same name. The title of Schwitters's book, Die Kathedrale, reflects the Expressionists' embrace of the Gothic cathedral as an emblem of unification in the arts. The white square of paper on the cover, part of a wraparound seal added by Schwitters, declares, "Beware: Anti-Dada." At this point, the Dadaists were antagonistic toward Schwitters, whom they considered bourgeois and not sufficiently political."Merz," a play on the German word for commerce, was an overarching term Schwitters used to describe collages, poems, and performances he created by combining such elements as bits of odd paper found in the streets, snippets of overheard conversation, or fragments of text from everyday sources. Between 1923 and 1932 he also published a journal entitled Merz, which comprised twenty-four issues. The third issue is a portfolio of lithographs that served as a special edition of the journal. In typical Dada fashion, he included random elements such as found typographic fragments and photographic images in these prints. However, his concurrent incorporation of geometric abstraction demonstrates his growing involvement with the Constructivist aesthetic.
A series in which Dean painted out the backgrounds of old postcards depicting trees led her to her own photographs of famous or ancient trees in her native England.  Here we see the "Crowhurst yew," located on the grounds of a twelfth–century church and said to be over four thousand years old. It shares its name with one of Dean's favorite subjects, the English sailor Donald Crowhurst, who disappeared in the late 1960s during a solo round–the–world boat race.
A simply laid–out meal is not as simple as it seems. Each singular object is rendered with equally sharp focus and pictorial realism, yet any expectation of everyday reality is overturned, above all by the unblinking eye that stares inexplicably from a slice of ham on a plate. The Belgian Surrealist writer Louis Scutenaire described Magritte's objects as totems, and the spare arrangement here points toward the significance of a ritual meal. The perspective of this still life tilts dramatically toward the surface of the picture plane, as if to confront or perhaps invite the viewer to join the table. After exhibiting the canvas in several international Surrealist exhibitions in the 1930s, Magritte produced a lifesize, three–dimensional version for a 1945 Surrealist display in Brussels.
As in a musical score, the passage of time is symbolically represented in a movement from left to right in the drawing's extended horizontal format that was partly influenced by Chinese scroll painting. At the suggestion of Italian composer Ferruccio Busoni, Richter had listened to J.S. Bach in order to explore the musical concept of counterpointthat is the harmonic composition of two or more simultaneous melodies. The interlocked shapes of this drawing are arranged on varying levels much like the upper or lower voices in a fugue.
A single letter dominates this poster, creating a memorable logo for the event. Dexel's design exploits the symbolic and expressive potential of a sinuous S to suggest both lithe, athletic movement and the shape of a racetrack. The publication of Tschichold's book Die Neue Typographie (The new typography) in 1928 had boosted the adoption of modernist graphics in centers across Germany, including Magdeburg, where Dexel had arrived in 1928 to fill the teaching post vacated by his friend Johannes Molzahn.
A solitary figure hurries down an empty city street in this dramatic composition, a view from above. Hopper made this and other etchings early in his career, before turning exclusively to painting and drawing in 1928. Etching, a technique in which a composition is incised into a metal plate and then printed in ink on paper, was particularly suited to Hopper's style, allowing him to use strong, clean lines and cross-hatching to enhance the mystery of his chosen subject—here, the empty city at night.
As part of Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal program, the Rural Electric Administration (REA) was created in 1935 to bring electricity to impoverished areas where as few as 10 percent of homes had electric power. The REA was able to build on Thomas Edison's success in marketing radios and phonographs to rural communities in the early twentieth century. The poster's core message was simple: radio would relieve the isolation of a lonely homestead. The patriotic color scheme implied that this was in the national interest, creating a more cohesive society through the spread of electrically powered amenities to all regions and social groups.
A taut web of wire connects hand–carved wooden forms that project from the wall. Calder made this work in 1943, the year the Museum hosted a major retrospective of his work. At the time, he was the youngest artist to receive this honor."There wasn't much metal around during the war years, so I tried my hand at wood carving," Calder said. "I have always liked wood carving, but these were now completely abstract shapes." With its spare, evocative forms, this work underscores the persistent influence Surrealism wielded on his art. It also strikes a note of ambiguity and tension characteristic of much of Surrealist art: does the wire link these disparate elements, or is it a web that traps them? The title suggests a starry vision of night, but the wood elements possess a slightly figurative presence and appear locked irrevocably into place. In 1948 the Brazilian architect Henrique Mindlin wrote, "Calder's work shows more than just the youthful inventive American spirit. Their 'humor,' their instability, their accidental qualities also betray the anxieties of our era. And the subtle elusive lyricism of his forms bespeaks our disillusionment with the obvious and explicit."
At Düsseldorf Art Academy in the 1960s, Immendorff was a student of artist Joseph Beuys. In Honigstand. Stützpunkt von Immendorff, the honey flowing down the plank both pays tribute to and mocks Beuys's use of the material in his work as a symbol for joint effort, highlighting the conflict between older and younger generations in Germany at that time—a legacy of the country's troubled history in the twentieth century.
A tension between organic and geometric forms, between a human figure and abstract design, energizes this poster for a Berlin-based cigarette company. A highly stylized female silhouette encircles a striking trademark, offset by a waving line that bisects the composition. Restricted colors are used to connote luxury (gold) and smoke (blue). The design builds on the German tradition of the Sachplakat (object poster), which reduced an advertising message to one memorable object or icon. One of the earliest and most famous examples is a 1910 poster by Lucian Bernhard, also for Manoli. Deffke, who became director of the Kunstgewerbeschule (Industrial art school) at Magdeburg, was a prolific designer of reductive, memorable logos in the 1920s.
At first glance, this modest pencil drawing appears to be a simple image of a teacup—a memento, perhaps, of a quiet morning at a kitchen table, in the manner of a traditional still-life. On closer inspection, however, it unravels and becomes something else entirely. The flat tones, sharp contours, and regular shading suggest that the artist's source for the drawing was a photograph of a cup rather than a cup itself. Indeed, no simple sketch taken from life, 4.6.1999 is an image of an image. Most likely derived from one of Richter's own snapshots, the drawing bears the pictorial imprint of the impersonal and mechanical language of the camera. The erased marks that run across the center of the sheet further complicate the drawing. Slicing the motif into strips, these striations disrupt the "transparency" of the image, calling special attention to the process of the drawing's making. Like the use of photographic source material, these erasures register the artist's hand negatively, as something absent or canceled.The tension between the apparent simplicity of the motif and the pregnant implications of the means by which it was rendered points to the critical charge in Richter's art, which over the last four decades has probed the myriad ways in which images are made and perceived. Working in many different mediums and styles (indeed, this drawing was executed concurrently with another work done completely abstractly), Richter has consistently examined the contingency of representation, fashioning a body of work of tremendous variety, versatility, and import. By underscoring the constructed nature of illusionism, Richter's work invites viewers to reflect on how they perceive the world, and, in the process, invests his personal visions with public implications.
At first glance, this work might strike the viewer as unfinished, given the blank areas left on the paper. But Cézanne meant Foliage to be a study in color and line depicting the rhythms of rustling leaves, which appear to move across the page. His brushstrokes deliver deposits of pigment that create the illusion of light and shadow. Nature is evoked in the lightness and transparency of the medium, in the placement of the subject, and in the inferred movement.Cézanne's late watercolors, of which this is a superb example, "are acts of construction in color." Here he applied discrete unblended lines and patches of color around lightly sketched pencil contours and built depth from color by translating dark-light gradations into cool-warm ones. In this mosaic, colored lines and planes and overlapping shades together fix the depth of the subject to the surface of the paper—the white surface that is the final arbiter of pictorial coherence. In this way Cézanne redefined modern drawing according to color "modulation," his term for that which enabled him not only to capture the light of southern France, where he lived and worked, but also to approach abstraction.
At Geopark, a public play area in the city of Stavanger, Norway's oil capital, redundant material from the petroleum industry is transformed into objects of play. The park's form is based on the topography of a vast underwater natural gas and oil field, called Troll, with bright orange buoys, salvaged pipelines, and recycled drilling platforms forming bike ramps and interactive play spaces, delineated on one side by a wall for graffiti. To inform their design, the architects conducted workshops with community groups, in accordance with the idea that sustainable practices depend not only on materials and building methods but also on a supportive network of industry representatives and regular citizens, children included.
A three-man crew of slapstick thugs cruises a vacant metropolis in a beat-up jalopy. Wearing Ku Klux Klan hoods, they are plainly up to no good; but rather than invoking a specific evil, these men are symbolic embodiments of a general know-nothing violence. The principal story told here is that of an America run afoul of its democratic promise. Guston refused to exempt himself from responsibility: in other paintings he depicted an artist in Klan robes at his easel.Guston began his career as a figurative painter, then, around mid-century, developed a lyrical Abstract Expressionism, a typical path for a member of the New York School. In the late 1960s, however, Guston made a surprising return to narrative painting—but not in the vein of the classic studio tradition in which he had trained. The art of Guston's last decade is antically cartoonlike. It has precedents in his earlier figurative period (and in his occasional satiric drawings of artists and writers), but rephrases them in a type of caricature dating to his childhood imitations of comic strips such as Krazy Kat. At the same time, paintings like City Limits have a strange baroque grandeur, and a bitter undertow—an insistence on the fascination of cruelty.
A tiny but powerful microcontroller, Arduino is an open-source, programmable microchip housed on (a circuit board, and a platform for some of the most compelling interdisciplinary design collaborations between science and the humanities happening today. It can be programmed to drive components such as sensors, LEDs, and motors in order to build and develop all kinds of interactive objects. Arduino allows artists, designers, and active maker-culture enthusiasts, as well as children and amateurs, to engage with processes and final products that are usually the domain of electronic engineers. This new building block of design has resulted in applications as diverse as light sculptures, digital pollution detectors, and tools to help people who are unable to use common interfaces such as a computer mouse.
A Trip to the Moon is a satire in which the innate conservatism of the scientific community is overcome by the convictions of a lone charismatic figure (played by the filmmaker himself). This one-reel film spared no effect or expense in bringing to life Méliès's intensely personal vision. Astronauts prepare for a rocket-launching, take off, land on the moon (hitting it in the eye), and finally splash down back on earth. Perhaps the greatest tribute paid to Méliès by his peers was the fact that, rather than attempting to duplicate the marvels contained in A Trip to the Moon, they simply stole it and released it under their own names, particularly in the United States. Méliès produced hundreds of films over the next decade. He had been a renowned magician and showman, who first became fascinated with projected images when he incorporated magic lanterns (early slide projectors) into his stage presentations at the Théâtre Robert-Houdin in Paris. Inspired by the work of the Lumière brothers, Méliès went on to build Europe's first true film studio, at Montreuil, and began to make films indoors in a stagelike space with artificial lighting. He produced action shorts, fictional tales, and spectacles; but he was most successful with his fantasy works, the most famous of which is A Trip to the Moon.
Attending to private affairs in her apartment, the anonymous woman in Night Windows is unaware of any viewer's gaze. The painting exposes the voyeuristic opportunities of the modern American city, and the contradiction it offers between access to the intimate lives of strangers and urban loneliness and isolation. The city at night is a frequent subject in Hopper's work of the late 1920s and early '30s. Here, the composition of three windows allows for a dramatic setting of illuminated interior against dark night, a juxtaposition the artist identified as "a common visual sensation."
At the end of the 1920s, Le Corbusier's grand plan for the future of the city was evolving rapidly: the layered and open-ended scheme of his Ville contemporaine of 1922 was developing into the linearity and political homogeneity of his Ville radieuse of 1930–31, which these sketches anticipate. Le Corbusier visited South America in 1929, a memorable trip that allowed him to survey the tropical landscapes and cityscapes from the air at leisure, with the help of the aviators Jean Mermoz and Antoine de Saint-Exupéry. The uniqueness of the landscape, and the contrast between the forest and open terrain and the sprawling, suffocating cities, inspired him to draw up new plans for Montevideo and São Paulo. The sketch for Montevideo, at the top of the drawing, highlights a giant business center under a motorway that juts into the bay, connecting the most important buildings and bypassing the preexisting urban chaos. The plan for São Paulo, below, attempts to dodge the city's traffic by setting a cruciform arrangement of motorways on the roofs of residential apartment blocks. Making powerful strokes and cuts through the landscape, Le Corbusier envisions superimposing buildings and freeways on a giant scale over the existing urban fabric. Instead of a center, the new city would have satellites and zones, all with their own infrastructural systems. "I prefer drawing to talking. Drawing is faster, and allows less room for lies", Le Corbusier remarked in 1961. These sketches testify to the strength of his ideas' flow onto the paper.
At the experimental Black Mountain College, Rockburne was introduced to mathematics by a professor who saw its principles as a defining force in nature. Mathematical ideas—from set theory to the golden section—have been among her tools ever since. Discussing her personal approach, Rockburne has said, "When I'm working well and am totally focused, I feel as though the work is making itself." This piece, meant to be site–specific, can be expanded or contracted through manipulation of the rolls of paper.
At the time it appeared, the series of works known as The Seasons was Johns's most autobiographical to date. Its imagery combines fragmented references to the artist's past work and his life, including a tracing of his shadow. Johns has said, "In my early work I tried to hide my personality, my psychological state, my emotions, but eventually it seemed like a losing battle. Finally one must simply drop the reserve."
"At twenty, in Paris," Lachaise wrote in 1928, "I met a young American person who immediately became the primary inspiration which awakened my vision and the leading influence that has directed my forces." The young American in question, Isabel Nagle, would eventually become Lachaise's wife, and Standing Woman and other works are certainly inspired by her. In Isabel, Lachaise seems to have seen greater forces and principles of human life: "You are," he once told her, "the Goddess I am searching to express in all things."Like many twentieth-century sculptors, Lachaise wanted to escape the classical tradition, and some of his smaller, more private works distend and exaggerate parts of the female body in ways that recall the swollen forms of Paleolithic fertility figures. The unshakable calm and dignity of Standing Woman are closer to classical art, but Lachaise stretches classical proportion with muscular rounding and augmented mass and height. For all their weight, the figure's breasts and hips, arms and thighs balance evenly around her slender waist. Her easy pose, commanding uprightness, and direct gaze give her a regal force. Standing Woman embodies Lachaise's stated ambition for his art: to express "the glorification of the human being, of the human body, of the human spirit, with all that there is of daring, of magnificence, of significance."
Autopole is a lightweight telescopic expansion tube with a cantilever locking system and protective rubber ends that can be securely placed between walls or between the ceiling and the floor. It can stand alone and function as a lighting stand or be used with other poles to support backdrops for photography or filming. Because of its versatility, it has become standard studio equipment in those industries.
Avery painted scenes of nature throughout his career, but he preferred simple forms to realistic details, and his palette is distinctively personal. The results come close to abstraction. In Sea Grasses and Blue Sea (based on Avery's memories of Provincetown, Massachusetts), the sky is a straight and narrow blue band at the painting's upper rim. The rest of the canvas is divided into two trapezoids of almost equal size and shape. The lower of these, the sea grass, is pale and lightly streaked, and echoes the tonality of the sky; above it is a wedge of a predominantly darker, saturated blue, with patches both of a lighter blue and, more sharply, of deep black. Magically, the overall effect is of waves flecked with white foam.That black is paradoxical: as Matisse remarked of the black in one of his own paintings, it is used as "a color of light and not as a color of darkness." In various ways, in fact, Avery is closer to Henri Matisse than to the styles that prevailed in America during his lifetime-in his love of clarified form and flat color, for example, and in the sense of rich serenity that permeates his art.
A vibrantly colored, tightly packed procession of uneven verticals nearly envelops a face painted in markedly nonnaturalistic shades of green and purple. Kupka would later say that to make this painting he had reworked an unfinished portrait of his wife, laying in strokes of color around her face until it was all but obscured by their boldly flat pattern—a method suggesting a literal assault on figuration.
A well-known children's book and newspaper illustrator, Nordström unites discordant images and styles, working mostly with pencil but also with watercolor and collage. He places buildings drawn with the elegance of architectural renderings in landscapes that resemble folk art, populated with an array of figures engaged in acts from the mundane to the profane. He creates boxlike spaces to house his characters and seems to delight in depictions of bourgeois life gone strangely, if not savagely, awry. Nordström's style is unique, mixing references to naive art, eighteenth– and nineteenth–century vernacular illustration, and the late work of Symbolists James Ensor and Edvard Munch. His odd juxtapositions also sound a Surrealist note: a bucolic suburban landscape and high–heeled nudes peppered among society gentlemen in tuxedos bring the artist's quirky imagination to the page.
A well–known member of the Young British Artists (YBA) group that emerged in the late 1980s and early 1990s, Lucas develops provocative themes of sexual and social identity in her artwork. In this drawing Lucas takes on death and destruction. She has arranged cigarettes on brown kraft paper to depict a skeleton on horseback carrying a sickle—the emblem of death. Many of her works feature cigarettes; Lucas has commented that for her smoking is a habit that, though self–destructive, affords her space to think: "a way of palpably 'having' time."In the tradition of Dada, Fluxus, and Nouveaux Réalistes assemblages, Lucas plays with everyday materials to create a dramatic and aesthetic work of technical virtuosity that disconcerts the viewer with its violent medium and subject matter. This drawing is provocative at all levels, including its title. The phrase "It's not the end of the world (remember me)" could be uttered by Death, personified, facing humanity and its conceit, or by Lucas in a desperate affirmation of existence itself.
Aycock's monumental sculpture was built for her 1977 Projects exhibition at The Museum of Modern Art. The artist identifies many architectural sources for the work, including "medieval walled towns, Roman amphitheaters, military bunkers, Egyptian shanty towns and desert citadels, and an eighteenth-century Indian observatory at Jaipur." The viewer is intentionally barred from having full access to the work—parts cannot be seen at all; others may be viewed partially from the corridor in the center of the structure. Through this project Aycock seeks to heighten viewers' psychological reaction to architecture and their awareness of the spaces they regularly occupy.
A-Z Escape Vehicle: Customized by Andrea Zittel is one in a line of works inspired by the mobile home. All have the same stainless steel outer shell, but the interiors differ, each being customized to specifications designed by its owner. Like trailers, these capsules can be hooked to a car and driven away, but they are actually designed to be installed in a garden or driveway, or even indoors. The "escape" of their title, then, lies not so much in their mobility as in their provision of a retreat tailor-made for one individual's comfort.Simultaneously aesthetic and useful, the escape vehicles challenge the idea of the artwork as an object of contemplation. They implicitly argue that artists can participate in their societies rather as designers and architects do—by producing works with practical and benign applications in daily life. In this way Zittel belongs to a tradition of social involvement running back to the Bauhaus and the Russian Constructivists. A more recent precedent of a different kind is Pop art, with its attraction to vernacular and commercial visual forms and production methods. The name "A–Z" is a pun, fusing the idea of embracing inclusiveness with the artist's initials. Zittel customized this particular escape vehicle herself, creating a papier-mâché grotto in striking contrast to the sleek metal outer skin.
Baboon and Young shows Picasso's power of metaphorical transformation at its height. In the original assemblage from which this bronze baboon was cast, her face was formed from two toy cars—one upright, the other turned upside down—that Picasso had borrowed from his son Claude, and her tail was an automobile spring. The baboon's ears were made from cup handles, and her round belly was a large jug whose handles form the shape of her shoulders.
Baldessari was a seminal figure in the Conceptual art movement that emerged in the late 1960s and early 1970s, emphasizing ideas, language, and performative actions over the formal preoccupations of painting. For many Conceptualists any act could be deemed an artwork, and here Baldessari takes a humorous and ironic look at the extremes of such a position.
Balka uses humble materials that are resonant with meaning: dust, ashes, salt, and pine needles still smelling of the Polish forest where they were gathered. Silent and dour, his often wretched objects take on a certain sacredness, dignity, and even grandeur, but instead of being expressions of faith, his vessels, wooden constructions, and depictions of the human body are empty relics. They do not prove, but rather question, the presence of a merciful God. In its austerity Balka's work gives expression to the existential anguish produced by the trauma of the Holocaust.Balka has made drawings throughout his career, but Moulting stands out for its size, its material complexity, and its almost sculptural presence. Depicting a headless and armless male figure floating on a background of pine needles, it alludes to a Catholic relic and to a human body returned to the earth. The small pile of pine needles that sits in front of the drawing reinforces the visual metaphor of a gravesite while giving a three-dimensional quality to the whole. This drawing is part of the broader investigation of the bodily trace that has informed Balka's work since the late 1980s.
Barnes painted many desolate scenes like this one, a moonlit landscape in which an isolated house, with a single ghostly figure standing in the doorway, balances tenuously on a hilltop. The artist, who was self–taught, seems to have transferred this mood to his practice, sometimes painting in a largely dark studio, his canvas illuminated by a single lightbulb. High Peak was included in MoMA's 1943 exhibition Romantic Painting in America, which presented Romantic art as "the temporary triumph of Imagination over Reason in the war between the two." Barnes was described as continuing an American tradition of "the Romanticism of night and mystery" established by the nineteenth–century American painter Albert Pinkham Ryder. High Peak was purchased for the Museum's collection from that show.
Barney's small drawing, mounted on a hinged apparatus of prosthetic plastic, diagrams the three personalities identified in the title of the work: famed magician Harry Houdini, punk-rock star Wendy O. Williams of the band the Plasmatics, and football legend Jim Otto. The artist's identification with athletes and performers indicates his interest in physical strength, endurance, and exaggerated performance. Barney, who draws from his own experience as an athlete, is perhaps best known for his extravagant films featuring bizarre characters involved in ritualized activities. The notational and cryptic pencil map, attached to a movable armature, links seemingly diverse personas and their physical actions with the graphic mark.
Barozzi. Purchased from the artist, then exchanged for another picture Knoedler Galleries, New York. 1948 Sam Salz, New York. Purchased from Knoedler Galleries, 1948 - 1949 The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift of Sam Salz, 1949
Baselitz described this drawing as "the depiction of a table with knots of figural motifs. Above and below landscape formation." The bulbous, knotted forms, spread over two sheets of paper in disjointed and contorted spaces, signal the artist's desire to formulate his own pictorial language. They also point to his fascination with the Mannerist painters, such as the Italians Jacopo da Pontormo and Parmigianino, as well as with what he considered "outsider" art, namely, the work of Antonin Artaud, Vincent van Gogh, and August Strindberg, for example, and the expressive visual language of the art of the insane. These nightmarish, amorphous, distorted, almost putrefying shapes express a sense of anger, alienation, disease, and decay that informed the artist's vision in the early 1960s.Several of Baselitz's paintings of 1962—63 include similar knotted forms, which continued to populate his work throughout most of the decade, culminating in the famous Heroes series. These works mark his search for symbols and vocabulary that assert his own identity and iconography, which, at the time, expressed themselves through the introduction of disjointed fragments of the body, placed in irrational spaces. This drawing is also related to the artist's early iconoclastic texts, the Pandemonium manifestos, published in 1961 and 1962.
Basquiat was a self–taught artist whose experience in New York City in the 1970s and 1980s helped define the rawness and aggression of his work. This untitled drawing, composed of expressive lines, vivid colors, accidental marks, figures, and symbols, exemplifies his visual aesthetic. In it three schematic, blank–faced male figures, their body parts and expressions depicted with simple, gestural lines, carry weapons at their sides and exude a mystical aura that is reinforced by the halos hovering around their heads. Crownlike imagery is a trademark of Basquiat's oeuvre; for him it symbolized what he saw as the spiritual superiority of African American men in modern society.The landscape surrounding the figures is composed of prehistoric symbols and Egyptian hieroglyphs depicting natural elements such as the sun, the moon, stars, and water. The two central animals—one vicious and feral, the other decomposed and almost skeletal—represent death and mortality. Through masterful manipulation of line, color, and symbol, Basquiat explores life, death, the spiritual, the supernatural, and the physical in a concrete, visual space.
Bauhaus Stairway depicts the Bauhaus, a school founded in 1919 by architect Walter Gropius, famous for its visionary integration of technology, art, and design. Although Schlemmer made this painting three years after he left his teaching position at the Bauhaus, the works gridded structure, streamlined modular bodies and predominant palette of primary colors capture the schools vibrant design spirit. The carefully choreographed arrangement of the figures and the man en pointe at the top of the stairs reflects Schlemmers role as the creator of many important dance and theatrical productions at the Bauhaus. Schlemmer painted this work as Hitler assumed power, shortly before the Nazis closed the Bauhaus for good. He was among many artists persecuted by the Nazis, whose work they deemed "degenerate" and often destroyed.
Before Braque began painting the landscape of L'Estaque, in southern France, the town had been a favorite subject for Paul Cézanne, whose 1907 memorial exhibition in Paris had a great impact on the younger artist. This painting makes visible Cézanne's influence on Braque's developing later Cubist style. Braque employs Cézanne's progressive gradations of color and flattened, inaccessible spaces. As Cézanne often did, Braque left an area of canvas unpainted, in the limb of a tree. Road near L'Estaque looks forward to Cubism in its significantly restricted palette of colors, crowded space, and sharp geometric forms.
Before Braque met Pablo Picasso, with whom he invented Cubism, he painted in the bright, bold colors shared by the Fauves, a loosely affiliated group of artists that also included Henri Matisse, André Derain, and Raoul Dufy. They were given this name—meaning "wild beasts"—by an unsympathetic critic in 1905, as a result of the high-pitched colors and anti-naturalistic rendering they embraced. In the summer of 1907 Braque worked in the resort town of La Ciotat, near Marseilles, where he painted this landscape using heavy outlines, flattened space, and intense, harmonic colors.
Beginning in 1917, Arp's work shifted away from geometric forms toward a more fluid, organic style. During a trip to a Swiss lake resort, Arp was inspired to evoke the branches, stones, roots, and grasses he observed, working with brush and ink. He soon began using similar shapes in his drawings, creating free flowing forms that suggest the absence of deliberate consciousness or inhibition.
Bellmer began creating disturbing dolls in 1933, the year Adolf Hitler assumed power in Germany. Many have interpreted them as acts of political defiance against the Aryan ideals and social norms promoted by the Nazis, whom he openly opposed, and expressions of the personal outrage he felt towards his father, who had joined the Nazi party. Bellmer himself stated, "If the origin of my work is scandalous, it is because for me, the world is a scandal." Made in Berlin one year before the artist left for Paris, where he lived for the better part of the rest of his life, this figure is violently fragmented, its body parts splayed and truncated and its scale distorted. Connected mechanically by ball joints, its appendages offer endless perverse recombinations, made all the more unsettling by suggesting the physical traits of both a mature woman and a prepubescent girl.
[Bernhard Koehler (1849-1927), Berlin] [1]; [by inheritance to his son, Bernhard Koehler, Jr. (1882-1964), Berlin, 1927]. Acquired by Kurt Feldhäusser (1905-1945), Berlin, 1938 [2]; by inheritance to Marie L. Feldhäusser (1876-1967), his mother, Kirchberg and Brooklyn, 1945; sold through Weyhe Gallery, New York to The Museum of Modern Art, New York, May 26, 1949 (Mrs. Wendell T. Bush Fund) [3].[1] Collectors Records, 20 [Kurt Feldhäusser]. The Museum of Modern Art Archives.[2] Ibid. Michel Kellermann, André Derain: catalogue raisonné de l'oeuvre peint, Paris: Editions Galerie Schmit, 1992, vol. 1, no. 119: Paysage aux environs de Cassis, 1907.[3] Collection files, Department of Painting and Sculpture, The Museum of Modern Art, New York.
Bernheim-Jeune, ParisAndré Lhote, Paris, by 1936Dr. Johannes Hohl, BaselGalerie Beyeler, Basel, by 1967Walter and Marianne Feilchenfeldt, Zurich, by 1973The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1980. Purchased with funds from The Joan and Lester Avnet Fund
Best known for her portraits in watercolor, Dumas here employs a richly toned palette of oil paint, punctuating the female subject's white skin with a deep red nipple and slashes of blue and black at the eye and lips. One of a series of emotive portraits of laid-out corpses, the woman's head is taken from a still from the 1970 film Fly, by Yoko Ono, which follows houseflies as they explore the naked body of an actress. Dumas, who aims "to portray people in all their complexity and never [as a] completely definable entity," has succeeded in rendering an image of provocative ambiguity through her use of color, cropping, and foreshortening.
Best known for his oversized soft sculptures of food and consumer objects of the Pop art period, Claes Oldenburg began his career staging avant-garde performances, constructing environments, publishing writings, and generally embracing the commerce of everyday life. Printed work has always played a central role in his art, beginning with commercially produced announcements and ephemera for his Happenings, and continuing with traditional printmaking. Unlike most Pop artists, Oldenburg has been drawn to lithography because of its affinity to drawing rather than to the commercial look of screenprint. He has also produced a significant body of etchings. Engaging various concepts of reproduction and mass-circulation over the course of his career, Oldenburg has created more than two hundred fifty works, designated as "printed stuff" by the compilers of his catalogue raisonné. Oldenburg's environment called The Store—a storefront display on New York's Lower East Side, shown from December 1961 to January 1962—epitomized the artist's mingling of art, commodity, and commerce. At The Store, he sold painted plaster-and-wire constructions of familiar foodstuffs, clothing, and merchandise, elevating the status of these objects to art. To advertise his endeavor, Oldenburg created numerous printed works, such as business cards, stationery, and posters, including this hand-colored lithograph. Characterized by both a spontaneity of artistic gesture and the desire to self-promote, this print combines the tendencies of 1950s Abstract Expressionists with art's new embrace of consumer culture. The title of the enterprise, The Store, appears at the top, its address of 107 East 2nd Street at the bottom, and the artist's signature in reverse below the title. Oldenburg's array of objects, including a shirt and tie and a piece of cake, capture the humor and irony of this seminal event in contemporary American art.
Best known today as a painter, Shahn was also a prolific photographer—for a period in the 1930s, in fact, he was paid to take photographs by the U.S. government's Farm Security Administration, which hired him to document the hardships of rural American life. Shahn's photographs were the starting points for some of his paintings, including Handball. In a 1957 interview, Shahn described his painting as being about "social relationships," including those as seemingly simple as the relationships among ball players. In this painting the figures face away from us, engrossed in the world contained by the massive concrete wall of the handball court. The nuances of their relationship are suggested but ultimately hidden.
Between 1904 and 1910, André Derain established his career as a painter through his affiliation with the Fauves, or "wild beasts." This was the appellation he, Henri Matisse, Maurice de Vlaminck, and others came to be known by due to their highly experimental use of sharply contrasting colors in bright hues applied with spontaneous brushstrokes. During these same years, Derain and other Fauve artists achieved similarly striking, emotive effects in prints by exploiting stark contrasts between the white paper and the black ink. In his woodcuts of this period, Derain cut out the blocks so that heavy outlines mark the boundaries of flat, simplified shapes and linear patterns. Derain's illustrations for L'Enchanteur pourrissant, a prose poem by Guillaume Apollinaire, clearly show how the artist's interest in both African carvings and the woodcuts of Paul Gauguin informed his woodcut technique. His bold figures evoke the text but are not tied directly to it. While this approach represents a departure from traditional illustrations, the layout of blocks of text, page-sized prints, decorative elements, and illuminated letters all hark back to elements in early printed books. This combination of traditional and modernist components appeared again in 1943, when Derain created Pantagruel with publisher Albert Skira and master printer Roger Lacourière. Here Derain uses the white-line woodcut technique colored with the hand application of inks on a single block, a process known as à la poupée. The imagery he uses to depict scenes from this ribald sixteenth-century satire by François Rabelais resembles early playing cards. Among the six hundred printed works Derain made in the course of his career, nearly half served as book illustrations. In addition to woodcut, he exploited the expressive potential of a wide range of intaglio and planographic techniques in his prints.
Between 1919 and 1927 El Lissitzky produced a large body of paintings, prints, and drawings that he referred to by the word Proun (pronounced pro-oon), an acronym for "project for the affirmation of the new" in Russian. Lissitzky's style reflects his training as an architect in Germany before World War I as well as the inspiration of Kazimir Malevich, a fellow teacher at the Vitebsk art school. Lissitzky's radical reconception of space and material is a metaphor for and visualization of the fundamental transformations in society that he thought would result from the Russian Revolution.
Between 1961 and 1970 Roth created about fifty “literature sausages.” To make each sausage Roth followed a traditional recipe, but with one crucial twist: where the recipe called for ground pork, veal, or beef, he substituted a ground-up book or magazine. Roth mixed the ground-up texts with fat, gelatin, water, and spices before stuffing them into sausage casings. The source materials include work by authors and periodicals that the artist either envied or despised; they run the gamut from lowbrow illustrated tabloids to well-regarded contemporary German novels to the works of Karl Marx and the influential nineteenth-century philosopher Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel.
Between 1991 and 1994, Roma photographed people participating in services in African American Christian churches throughout his native Brooklyn. He began the project by photographing church architecture, but abandoned the buildings for the people inside after he was admonished by the pastor of a black congregation that God's work is performed not by the buildings but by the worship that takes place within.The importance of religious life in African American tradition, although well known, is not well documented in photographs. Roma responded to the challenge of photographing in the often dim spaces with ease and speed by crafting an elaborate system of lights mounted on his shoulders that moved with him and illuminated the scene without flooding the foreground in brilliance or abandoning the background to shadow. The extra effort was well worth it, for the physical and emotional commitment of the congregation is made palpable in this picture, which suggests hope and the possibility of transcendence.
Between Darkness and Light (After William Blake) is an installation that pairs a film about divine revelation with another about satanic possession. Projected onto opposite sides of the same translucent screen, the two films overlap back to back; a dark area in one image makes the other more visible, and two bright sequences nearly extinguish each other. When viewers walk into the path of the projections, they cast shadows on one side of the screen, revealing a clearer image of the other movie within them.Both films—The Exorcist (1973), directed by William Friedkin, and The Song of Bernadette (1943), directed by Henry King—are about adolescent girls driven by external forces. In The Exorcist, Regan is possessed by the devil; in The Song of Bernadette, the heroine's revelation leads her to steer her life toward God. Gordon plays both films at their actual speeds and with their original soundtracks; simply starting them at the same time and letting them run generates a constant variation of image and sound level. In an oscillating battle of images, a purgatorylike weighing of good and evil emerges. Neither Heaven nor Hell, Devil nor God, wins.
Between the formal experimentation and psychological gamesmanship of Zelig (1983) and The Purple Rose of Cairo (1985), a bittersweet fantasy about the heartbreaking power of cinema, Woody Allen made Broadway Danny Rose, a straightforward and enormously funny valentine to those on the lowest rungs of the theatrical ladder. Allen plays the title character, a down-on-his-luck manager who represents such marginal "talent" as a balloon act, a blind xylophone player, skating penguins, and a water-glass musician. His one remotely successful client is Lou Canova, a singer he manages to book into the Waldorf–Astoria. When Canova insists that Danny go to New Jersey and pick up his mistress so that she can attend his show, an unexpected odyssey through suburban Jersey and Manhattan ensues, leading to a contract on Danny's life. As with many of Allen's best films, the plot of Broadway Danny Rose is intricate and carefully laid out, but it is ultimately a mere hook on which to hang the many colorful characters and funny situations at which Woody Allen excels. There is no underlying message in this film, nor does it attempt to speak to any deeper human condition. Broadway Danny Rose is, simply, a comedy, a film designed to entertain and amuse. If it also manages to convey a sense of nostalgia for vaudeville's golden age, that is just a result of its director engaging in a bit of well–earned wistfulness.
Beuys believed that art should be a vehicle for social change. Multiples were perfect for spreading his fervent message, and he completed more than six hundred in his career. Felt can provide protection and warmth as well as detachment and isolation. This work was modeled after one of Beuys's own suits, with the arms and legs extended.
Beuys considered drawing to be a "thinking medium" that helped him work out ideas for sculptures and other objects. He applied various inorganic and organic substances to notebook paper, a support he imbued with social and spiritual significance throughout his career. In the 1950s and early 1960s, beuys adopted motifs from Nordic myths, Christianity, shamanism, and German history. His iconic Braunkreuz (brown cross) stamp is layered with meaning. It embodies a spiritual, unified view of the world—an ideal state that for Beuys was symbolized by a beehive. Brown is the color identified with Nazi Germany and the color of the paint widely used at midcentury to seal the wounds made where branches were cut off trees. Many German artists of the time used this paint, fascinated by its dual associations with the country's dark history and with healing.
Beuys sought to activate social change through art, often involving his students at the Kunstkademie Düsseldorf in his political endeavors. This commanding life–size image stages a direct confrontation between the artist and viewer, the activist and passive bystander, demanding that the latter join the cause of transforming society.
Beuys' tenure as a professor at the Kunstakademie Düsseldorf was marked by great controversy. Already well–known internationally when he took his post in 1963, Beuys believed art to be a crucial catalyst for political activism, and he encouraged his students to participate in political activities with him. Beuys entered into a battle with the school over its policy of limited admission, which he felt was undemocratic, and he intentionally over–enrolled his classes in protest. Mounting complaints against his many artistic provocations from other members of the faculty eventually led to his dismissal, in 1972, when he was finally escorted out of the building after staging a sit-in with his students. Onto this screenprinted photograph of the event, Beuys inscribed in ink the phrase, "Demokratie ist lustig" (Democracy is merry), using the institutions suppression of political dissent as the subject matter of a new artwork.
Bhabha is best known for her composite sculptures made from an array of organic and industrial materials. In Bleekmen Bhabha has altered and arranged found objects in a way that suggests a mask. The artist has also described the work as evoking a kind of derelict building. The sculpture has a ritualistic, perhaps totemic gravitas, but with its rough-hewn, decomposing quality, it seems to resist grandeur. Bleekmen variously conjures African, Egyptian, and Native American art, as well as futuristic aliens. In fact, the title of the work comes from the characters in Martian Timeslip, a 1964 science fiction book by Philip K. Dick, and refers to the indigenous people of Mars.
Big Caslon, designed for headlines and titles, is Carter's revival of the three largest and most eccentric typefaces attributed to eighteenth-century English engraver William Caslon. Carter made the design in 1994 then expanded the character family in 2003 with italic capitals commissioned by Wallpaper magazine. The most distinctive of the newer letters are the italic swash characters—those with exaggerated flourishes, such as the capital Q and N. Particularly expressive, swash letters are sometimes used as drop capitals, usually the first letter of the first sentence on a page of text, harkening back to the style of illuminated manuscripts.
Bing, Paris Private Collection, Los Angeles. Purchased from Bing, c. 1948 – 1950 Pierre Matisse, New York, and Frank Perls, Beverly Hills. Purchased from private collection, L.A., 1950 Mr. and Mrs. Samuel A. Marx, Chicago; then Florene May Schoenborn (Samuel A. Marx's widow, later Mrs. Wolfgang Schoenborn, 1903-1995). Purchased from Pierre Matisse, 1950 – 1996 The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Florene May Schoenborn Bequest, 1996
Biowall is a woven scaffold that becomes a partition when colonized by living plants. In their attempt to create a modular building system based on structures found in nature, the designers looked at several geometries, such as Penrose tiles (pairs of shapes that tile a plane so that no section of the pattern is repeated) and Synetic structures (airy, lacelike basketries of thin arcs over which pressure is evenly distributed). They opted for a weave of twelve small circles made of one-millimeter fiberglass rods around which the plants could grow and creep. “The construction is based on the principle of self-similarity, translating a biological construction from the nanoscale to the macroscale. It can be seen in our natural environment in the formation of bubbles, living cells, and water molecules,” the designers have explained.
Blake's animations, which merge allusions to architecture and abstract art with psychedelic effects, have been called "time–based paintings."  The artist referred to this piece as a "hallucinatory treatment of an imaginary ski lodge." He went on to say, "I hope that viewing my work will leave one in a quietly contemplative but also somewhat disoriented state."
Blauvelt created some eight hundred drawings in the 1940s and 1950s. She drew on loose–leaf notebook paper and on found materials, appropriating images from shopping catalogues or illustrating the furniture, clothing, and architecture of her everyday life. She infused these depictions with her own flattened perspective and organized her selections through careful classification, enhanced by a methodical layering of line.
Blume's exacting drawing delicately renders the details and texture of flower petals and leaves. Though using only pencil, he manages to capture a wide enough range of tone to suggest the rich color of his subject matter. Blume loved flowers, and he and his wife, Ebie, would often prepare bouquets from their garden. In this picture he included the open pair of scissors, partly hidden by leaves, that he had undoubtedly used to cut the pansies.
Boccioni, who sought to infuse art with dynamism and energy, exclaimed, "Let us fling open the figure and let it incorporate within itself whatever may surround it." The contours of this marching figure appear to be carved by the forces of wind and speed as it forges ahead. While its wind–swept silhouette is evocative of an ancient statue, the polished metal alludes to the sleek modern machinery beloved by Boccioni and other Futurist artists.
Book of Creation, one of three books Pape produced between 1959 and 1962, is considered a prime example of early Neo–Concrete art. Consisting of fifteen unbound cardboard "pages," the book tells the story of the creation of the world through an elaborate, abstract composition composed of geometric forms. The book does not retell a specific creation myth, but invites each viewer to create his or her own narrative by "reading" and interpreting each page. Starting with the recession of water and continuing through the development of agriculture, fire, hunting, time, navigation, the solar system, and light, Pape reinforces an open reading with various adaptations and configurations. She said, "Through each person's experiences there is a process of open structure through which each structure can generate its own meaning."
Borchardt Collection, Berlin. Purchased in Berlin (Galerie Der Sturm) in 1912Alfred Hess (1879-1931), Erfurt, Germany. Before 1924William A. Sinclair (art dealer), Kassel. By 1924 - November 20, 1932Karl Beierling, Bad Sooden-Allendorf, Germany. November 20, 1932 - 1955Herbert M. and Nannette F. Rothschild, Kitchawan, Westchester, New York. Purchased from Beierling, 1955 - 1959The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift of Herbert and Nannette Rothschild, 1959
Borchardt Collection, Berlin. Purchased in Berlin (Galerie Der Sturm) in 1912Collection Kluxen, Germany. By 1914Herwarth Walden (born Georg Levin, 1878-1941), Galerie Der Sturm, Berlin. By 1920Paul Citroen, Wassenaar, Holland. Purchased from Der Sturm, 1920 - 1948The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Purchased from Paul Citroen, 1948
Born Robert Clark in Indiana, Robert Indiana took his native state's name after moving to New York in 1954, a gesture that presaged his Pop-inspired fascination with Americana, signage, and the power of ordinary words. In his studio on Coenties Slip at the tip of Manhattan, Indiana made assemblages of scrap materials and found objects, using stencils to introduce words into his art. By the early 1960s he was creating eye-popping paintings of text, numbers, and symbols that related to the hard-edge abstraction of the day, and included political and social overtones. Later he moved to the island of Vinalhaven off the coast of Maine, where he continues to work. Indiana studied various printmaking techniques at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago, but later settled on screenprinting, a medium that suited his simplified forms and electric colors. In addition, the flexible screens could be easily reused to produce serial variations, a common practice in Indiana's printmaking. In all, he has completed more than one hundred sixty prints, working with commercial and fine-art workshops worldwide, among them Edition Domberger, near Stuttgart, known for screenprinting, and Vinalhaven Press, near his home, where he created lithographs and etchings. Few Pop images are more widely recognized than Indiana's LOVE. Originally designed as a Christmas card commissioned by The Museum of Modern Art in 1965, LOVE has appeared in prints, paintings, sculptures, banners, rings, tapestries, and stamps. Full of erotic, religious, autobiographical, and political underpinnings—especially when it was co-opted as an emblem of 1960s idealism—LOVE is both accessible and complex in meaning. In printed works, Indiana has rendered LOVE in a variety of colors, compositions, and techniques. He even translated it into Hebrew for a print and a sculpture at the Israel Museum in Jerusalem.
Borrowing Your Enemy's Arrows delivers a timeless message rooted in Chinese philosophy and expressed in the Western vocabulary of the readymade. Built on the skeleton of an old fishing boat excavated near Cai's birthplace, the sculpture, suspended aboveground, is pierced with 3,000 made-in-China arrows and flies the national flag. The title—which alludes to a text from the third century (known as Sanguozhi)—refers to an episode in which the general Zhuge Liang, facing an imminent attack from the enemy, manages to replenish a depleted store of arrows. According to legend, Zhuge Liang tricked the enemy by sailing across the Yangtze river through the thick mist of early dawn with a surrogate army made of straw, while his soldiers remained behind yelling and beating on drums. Mistaking the pandemonium for a surprise attack, the enemy showered the decoys with volleys of arrows. Thus the general returned triumphantly with a freshly captured store of weapons. Surreptitiously gathering strength from one's opponent is also a strategic principle in martial arts. Turning to a militaristic episode and a cultural practice, Cai not only suggests a defensive strategy in the face of foreign intervention, but also creates a poetic metaphor in the image of a wounded body transcending pain and floating in a cloud of feathered arrows.
Both efficient and pleasing to the eye, the ball bearing can be seen as an emblem of the machine age—a name often used to define the 1920s and 1930s, when industrial designers as well as consumers took a new interest in the look and style of commercial products. Even parts of machines could be appreciated for their beauty, which came from the purity of abstract geometry. Good design was considered by modernists as essential to the elevation of society, and in 1934, this ball bearing was among the first works to enter The Museum of Modern Art's design collection. Designed by Wingquist, this sturdy steel ball bearing is composed of a double layer of balls in a race. This type of bearing was structurally superior to the sliding bearing, which wastes energy in realigning machinery shafts thrown off during assembly-line manufacturing. The self-aligning quality of the ball bearing made it a superior product, since the bearing could absorb some shaft misalignment without lowering its endurance.
Bourgeois Gallery (Stephan Bourgeois), New York; sold to Sam A. Lewisohn (1884-1951), New York, May 1923 [1]; Estate of Sam A. Lewisohn, 1951; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1952 (Sam A. Lewisohn Bequest).[1] Collection files, Department of Painting and Sculpture, The Museum of Modern Art, New York. [2] Collection files, Department of Painting and Sculpture, The Museum of Modern Art, New York. See also Stephan Bourgeois, The Adolph Lewisohn Collection of Modern French Paintings and Sculptures, New York: E. Weyhe, 1928, pp. 216-217. Lender to the exhibitions "Modern" Pictures Representing Impressionist, Post-Impressionist, Expressionist and Cubist Painters, Union League Club, New York, April 8-10,1924; Painting in Paris from American collections, The Museum of Modern Art, New York, January 19-February 16, 1930, no. 70 (Pierrot, 1918); Picasso, Galerie Georges Petit, Paris, June 16- July 30, 1932 (no. 108); The Stage: A Loan Exhibition for the Benefit of the Public Education Association, Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., New York, April 3-April 22, 1939; Picasso: Forty Years of his Art, The Museum of Modern Art, New York, November 15, 1939-January 7, 1940, and Art Institute of Chicago, February 1-March 3, 1940 (no. 139).
Bourgeois's entire text for this series appears on the compositions cited below.Cover SheetWhat is the shape of this problem?No. 1 of 9The telephone call from the slammerNo. 2 of 9Repairs in the skyNo. 3 of 9The small hoursNo. 4 of 9I pick on everyone, dead or aliveNo. 5 of 9Has the day invaded the night, or has the night invaded the day?No. 6 of 9The papillon, the ray of hope.No. 7 of 9The hour is devoted to revengeNo. 8 of 9To unravel a torment you must begin somewhereNo. 9 of 9Art is a guaranty of sanity
Bradford is best known for his large–scale paper collages made from a diverse range of found materials. These include curling papers and dyes used in his mother's hair salon, printed, photocopied, or hand-lettered posters and advertisements torn from lampposts and buildings in his neighborhood, foil, paint, and many other materials. This combination of diverse secondhand materials, layered one on top of the other, parallels Bradford's subject matter: the cultural and socioeconomic melting pot that is South Los Angeles. The text that emerges from this work, "James Brown is Dead," refers to the death, in 2006, of a key figure among African Americans. For Bradford, the musician's life and death mark the rise and fall of black music, from rock and roll to the sometimes degraded social commentary of rap.
Brandt frequently applied washes to his prints to create dense shadows, using either gouache or an opaquing medium specifically formulated for use on photographs. Here he applied the black wash to reinforce the checkerboard pattern of basalt columns photographed on the coast of Northern Ireland, in some areas creating shadows where there had been none.
Brandt often reused photographs, re-titling and dating them to suit new contexts. For example, in his 1966 book Shadow of Light, Brandt titled this photograph Race-goers at Sandown Park, grouping it with other pictures in the section “London Before the War”—even though he had taken the picture at the Auteuil racetrack in Paris. Brandt regularly photographed spectators at various events in England throughout the 1930s.
Branzi founded the Italian avant-garde group Archizoom in 1966 with Gilberto Corretti, Paolo Deganello, and Massimo Morozzi. Like other radical architecture groups of the 1960s, it reacted against modernist architecture and downplayed practical concerns in favor of an imaginative, science-fiction-like approach. No-Stop City is based on the idea that advanced technology could eliminate the need for a centralized modern city. This plan illustrates a fragment of a metropolis that can be extended infinitely through the addition of homogenous elements adapted to a variety of uses. Residential units and free-form organic shapes representing parks are placed haphazardly over a grid structure, allowing for a large degree of freedom within a regulated system. Strongly ironic but designed with committed political ingenuity, the proposal questions the normative character of the existing city and defends new conceptions of life as expressed in revolutionary urban form.
Braque made Homage to J. S. Bach toward the end of a period of several months in which he and Pablo Picasso worked very closely together, producing paintings in a style that has become known as Analytic Cubism. In Analytic Cubism space is very compressed and shallow, colors are reduced to a palette of tans and grays, and identifiable subject matter—here, the parts of a violin—appears only in flickering moments. With this painting Braque introduced imitation wood grain to Cubism. He had learned this technique while working as a housepainter, and the Cubist practice of stenciling letters—here, BACH, J, and S—was also inspired by Braque's commercial training. Picasso and Braque employed multiple modes of representation simultaneously: in this work, Braque combined virtuoso illusionistic wood grain with linguistic references and near abstraction.Braque was trained as a classical musician, and he thought musical instruments added a tactile dimension to the visual image: "The distinctive feature of the musical instrument as an object," he said, "is that it comes alive to the touch." Johann Sebastian Bach, whose polyphonic compositions may be seen as musical analogues to the shifting planes and multiple perspectives of Analytic Cubism, was one of Braque's favorite composers. Rare for his work of this period, Braque signed his name prominently on the paintings face, perhaps to invite the slippage of sound between the composers name and his own. This is the second Analytic Cubist work by Braque to have recently entered the Museum's collection.
Braque painted Man with a Guitar in a mode that came to be called Analytic Cubism. In works created in this style, he and Pablo Picasso experimented with different types of representation to challenge the orthodoxy of illusionistic space in painting. Here Braque paired an accessible, lifelike rendering of a nail and rope, at left, with a nearly indecipherable rendering of a human figure playing a guitar. Braque and Picasso's collaboration was so close when they developed Analytic Cubism that Braque later compared them to two mountaineers, bound together. In order to remove the mystique of the maker from their paintings, they both habitually signed the back of their works instead of the front.
Bridge may have the appearance of a primitive rope bridge, but it is constructed of steel wool, a modern industrial product. This is the most ambitious of the works in Pascali's last series, Reconstructions of Nature: besides Bridge, it includes a human trap, jungle vines, and an animal skin all crafted of unlikely materials such as rubber and fake fur. An Italian critic coined the term "Arte Povera" in 1967 to describe the work of Pascali and other Italian artists who worked with "poor," nonart materials. These artists renounced the separation between art and life and aimed to expand or dissolve the traditional parameters of painting and sculpture. "I do not believe you make shows in galleries," Pascali said, "you make the gallery, you create the space."
Brodovitch was awarded third prize in the Seating Units category for this knock-down rocking chair. Described as "exceptionally simple and comfortable," it employs basic construction methods and inexpensive materials. Its parts can be cut from standard sheets of plywood with a minimum of waste. Brodovitch came to the United States in 1930 after fleeing Russia and establishing himself as a graphic designer in Paris. He was art director for the New York department store Saks Fifth Avenue, the American Red Cross, I. Miller Shoes, and Portfolio magazine but is most remembered for his influential tenure as art director at Harper's Bazaar from 1934 to 1958.
Broodthaers, a key figure in the development of Conceptual art in Europe, was a poet before he turned to visual art at age forty. He often mined his literary inclinations in works that centered on text and typography and made verbal and visual puns, regularly issued in the form of artist's books. He used his practice to question the conventional definition of art, critiquing the commercialization of art and artworks' status as commodities.Tractatus Logico–Catalogicus consists of the reprint, in negative, of twelve pages of a book previously published by the artist, MTL (L'art comme art de vendre) (Art as the Art of Selling). The plates were printed on a single sheet of paper as they came off the printing press, before being cut and assembled.
Bruce Nauman first intended these seven limestone slabs to be either installed on the facade of a building or embedded in the ground. Each stone is inscribed with a word created from one of the seven deadly sins (as outlined in the Bible) layered over one of Plato's four cardinal virtues or Christianity's three theological virtues. Virtues and vices—prudence and pride, fortitude and anger, faith and lust, hope and envy, charity and sloth, temperance and gluttony, justice and avarice—become entangled, superimposed, intertwined, illegible, canceling each other out while at the same time appearing to create new words.
Bruce Nauman's work defies easy categorization and cannot be identified with any particular style. Trained as a painter, Nauman gave up this traditional practice for a plethora of mediums, including sculpture in rubber, steel, fiberglass, and neon, architectural installations, video, photography, and performance. Also important in Nauman's oeuvre has been body art, a movement originating in the 1960s and 1970s in which the artist's own body, rather than traditional materials such as paint or wood, was the medium of choice. Although the conventional techniques of printmaking would not seem a natural choice for Nauman, he began to work at Cirrus Editions in Los Angeles, a print workshop and gallery opened by Tamarind-trained printer Jean Milant, in 1970. There he experimented with lithography and intaglio mediums, often using unconventional implements such as carpenter's files in lieu of traditional tools. Since that time, printmaking has remained a constant aspect of his creative output. Although Nauman's first editions derived from his body art, much of his subsequent printed work has dealt with language. Language is among his most important subjects, explored in many mediums. He dissects and deconstructs words and phrases, reverses them, reassembles them, plays with them, depicts them, and recombines them as part of an ongoing conceptual practice. In this example, Violins/Violence, Nauman creates a pun that is verbal, visual, and aural and plays on these two homonyms and on the sound that might be conjured up by his sharply scratched drypoint lines. The theme of language is especially prevalent in his prints, as nearly half are word images. He says of this work, "When I began to see the information as poetry, doing them as prints made sense."
Bruno is a portrait of the artist's eldest son at age ten. With his arms outstretched, the figure calls to mind a saint—possibly Bartholomew, a martyr who was flayed and is typically portrayed holding his skin. By using organic materials that are subject to degradation, Althamer has evaded the timeless quality associated with traditional fine art and religious sculpture. Althamer began the work in the 1990s and completed it in 2012 with the assistance of his son—now an adult—who is also an artist.
Bryce describes his careful rendering of images and texts appropriated from newspapers, magazines, advertisements, and other historic documents as "mimetic analysis." While displaying technical ability, his reduction of the images to graphic black–and–white forms parodies the supposed objectivity of mass media. Bryce believes that his "critical homage" to the twentieth–century intellectual Leon Trotsky "points to a history that has been silenced and destroyed"—a history he inserts into the present for reconsideration.
Buchholz Gallery, Paul Rosenberg & Co., New York. 1944 Collection of Mr. & Mrs. Louis Orswell, Narragansett. 1944  - c. 1958Saidenberg Gallery, New York. c. 1958 - 1965Richard S. Zeisler, New York. By 1965 The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Bequest of Richard S. Zeisler, 2007
Burle Marx was the first Brazilian landscape architect to depart from the classical principles of formal garden design. He introduced asymmetrical plans that have influenced landscape architects ever since. These included the use of native vegetation, colorful paving, and free-form bodies of water. A painter by training, Burle Marx treated landscape as a living work of art, with carefully studied juxtapositions of contrasting colors, shapes, and textures. Burle Marx designed the landscaping for Ibirapuera Park, and the Brazilian architect Oscar Niemeyer, who celebrates his hundredth birthday this year, designed its buildings. Burle Marx's plan for the park includes organically shaped planting beds, pathways, and bodies of water, illustrating his project of integrating landscape with architecture. Burle Marx and Niemeyer had worked on several projects together, and in the 1930s and 1940s had collaborated with Le Corbusier on the Ministry of Education and Public Health Building in Rio de Janeiro.
Byars lived in Japan for ten years and was heavily influenced by Japanese culture. This drawing, which stretches over 210 feet when fully extended, was first shown in a performance at a temple in Kyotoin 1964, in which a friend of Byars, dressed in black ceremonial robes, slowly unfolded and arranged the work in various configurations. The simplicity of Byars's single, continuous black line on a rhythmicallyarranged surface highlights the performative nature of the drawing and creates a link with the ritualized elegance of traditional Japanese theater practices.
By reducing painting to the bare minimum—a square, the color white, and metal fastenings—Ryman increases our attention to subtle variation. The work is hung high on the wall so its edge rather than its center is the focus of our gaze, and the conjunction of distinct surfaces—painted aluminum bracket, smoothly rendered fiberglass support, and unpainted aluminum bracket—is accentuated. The visible fastenings at top and bottom expose the typically hidden apparatus that holds the work to the wall. Ryman is much more interested in what he calls the "how" of painting, the physical object itself, than the "what" of painting, "the image, the story, the symbolism" that convey meaning outside the work.
By repurposing methods of television, cinema, and video production, Ken Okiishi's work responds to the migration of images, information, and language in a world increasingly reshaped by digital media. gesture/data combines video recordings with painting to create hybrid image-objects suspended between analog and digital technologies. The artist was inspired by viewing Wood, Wind, No Tuba (1980), an abstract painting by Joan Mitchell (American, 1925-1992), in MoMA's Agnes Gund Garden Lobby. As he photographed the painting with his iPhone, Okiishi was fascinated by the transformation of its original scale and physical presence into a small, portable field of glowing pixels and code. Okiishi paints directly onto the surfaces of flat-screen monitors that play mash-ups of 1990s VHS home recordings of sitcoms and advertisements partially recorded over with sequences from new, digitally broadcast television. gesture/data playfully suggests connections between the physical traces of gestural painting and the swipes, taps, and pinches through which we now access digital images, subject to infinite redistribution.
By slashing the center of his canvases, Fontana allowed three–dimensional space to intrude into an otherwise two–dimensional surface. Fontana first introduced perforations within his works in 1949 and referred to these as "spatial concepts." He then began slashing his canvases in the early 1950s and added the term "Expectations" to the title. While these works immediately conjure acts of violence and iconoclasm, Fontana claimed "I have constructed, not destroyed."
"By the middle of the '70s," Rothenberg has said, "I sensed that people were tired of Minimal and Conceptual art. It made sense to paint an image of something you could recognize and feel something about." Having found herself doodling a horse on a bit of canvas in 1973, Rothenberg shortly began a series of full-scale paintings of horses. These works anticipated the powerful return of figurative and subjective content in American and European art of the late 1970s and 1980s. Rothenberg, however, runs the emotional immediacy of figurative art through the filter of abstraction. In Axes, her working of the paint favors its material presence over its illusionistic or expressive possibilities. The body of the horse is a largely flat white—there is little modeling to give it volume or detail to give it character. It shares that white with the ground around it, which it traverses improbably slantwise, and straight lines cross both body and ground, insisting that they are constituents of the same flat surface. The result is neither wholly representational nor wholly abstract, and reflects the ideas of its time even while it breaks from them: "I was able to stick to the philosophy of the day—keeping the painting flat and anti-illusionist—but I also got to use this big, soft, heavy, strong, powerful form." Axes. 1976
By using a piece of actual wallpaper, Bubbles applied the spirit of home improvement alluded to in the title to the design of this poster and the packaging of the related album. Dave Robinson, owner of the Stiff Records label, negotiated a free supply of about twenty-eight Crown wallpaper patterns on the understanding that the catalog numbers of specific designs would be left on the paper.
Cable Turtle is an ingeniously simple case for shortening and containing cables to prevent tangles. The two thermoplastic rubber shells fold inside out and then back together, allowing the user to wrap a cable around the inner spool then neatly enclose it in the turtlelike casing. The designers decided that no poisonous glues or dangerous assembly methods could be used and therefore opted for a permanent snap-fit that requires no other materials or dangerous solvents.
Caldas's works often function as open questions, addressing such critical formal issues as the meaning of a void, the activation of empty visual fields, the ambiguity of perception, and the juxtaposition between objective names and nameless objects. Pontos belongs to a repertoire of works in which Caldas played with the visual meaning of dots: as chance-ordered forms or as repetitive figures, as a matrix for ideal architecture or as a metaphor for perceptual space. This work set the ground for countless others in which Caldas developed his early intuitions through abstract allegories that stress the complexity of visual surfaces through our experience of time.
Caldas's work, whether in drawing or in sculpture, seeks to confuse viewers' conception of space. His work Mirror of Light (1974), reflects the gallery and the other artworks on view, including the people looking at them.  Japan, a triptych of drawings seems to relate to the geographical system, but its scattered points and numbers are random arrangments.  They are "hypothetical loactions of something we never reach," Caldas has said.
Calder first gained public recognition and acclaim for wire sculptures he made in Paris in the late 1920s. "I think best in wire," he once commented. Known for carrying a roll of wire over his shoulder and a pair of pliers in his pocket, Calder bent, pinched, and twisted strands of wire to fashion this distinctive tribute to Josephine Baker, one of the most celebrated performers of her day. Wire's appeal, Calder explained, is that it "moves of its own volition . . . jokes and teases," is "deliberately tantalizing," and "goes off into wild scrolls and tight tendrils"—a description that suits this exuberant portrait particularly well. Calder's imaginative "drawings in space," as he referred to them, delighted the public and led Parisian critics to dub him "The King of Wire." While Calder eventually dedicated himself to abstract art, wire's flexibility served as a critical catalyst for his lifelong interest in motion and in the drama of shadows—as this buoyant portrait of Josephine Baker makes evident.
Carlo F. Bilotti (1934-2006), Cosenza/Rome/New York, by 1967 [1]. Acquired by the McCrory Corporation (Meshulam Riklis) by 1979 [2]; The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1983 (The Riklis Collection of McCrory Corporation).[1] Included in the exhibition Twentieth Century Italian Art from the Carlo F. Bilotti Collection, New York: Finch College Museum of Art, 1967 (no. 3: Circolpiani).[2] Rotzler, Willy, ed. Constructivism and the Geometric Tradition: Selections from the McCrory Corporation Collection. Buffalo: Albright-Knox Art Gallery, 1979 (no. 9: Circolpiani).
Carl Otto Czeschka's eight double-page illustrations to Franz Keim's abridged version of the Nibelung saga, a mythic tale of royal wealth and betrayal, evoke an elegant and enchanted world. Stylized toy soldiers and chessboard knights, like the ones the artist displayed at the Viennese Kunstschau exhibition in 1908, stand guard or enact epic battles. A Viking ship glides through choppy waters; the luminous geometric ornamentation on its sail epitomizes the Viennese use of lush surface patterning, in which exotic and folk sources were filtered through a distinctively modern aesthetic. The volume appealed to the widespread interest in untutored forms, such as "primitive" and children's art, as a basis for cultural authenticity and renewal. PUBLISHING HISTORYCzeschka's designs elevate the simplified, populist interpretation by Keim, a former teacher and German nationalist. First published in 1909 as part of the thirty-four-volume series Gerlachs Jugendbücherei (Gerlach's youth library) aimed at Austrian schoolchildren, the tiny, almost square-shaped book serves as a perfect realization of the Gesamtkunstwerk—a total work of art in which all elements follow a single artistic idea. Checkered borders frame every page. The text is set in a modernized blackletter type, suggestive of medieval calligraphy, by the famed Jugendstil artist Otto Eckmann. The Museum's copy dates to 1920, when the publishers issued a second edition.
Carroll Dunham's marvelous, eyeless, tooth-filled, libidinal shapes in this Untitled work are representative of the figures populating his personal visual universe. He has said that such images are, on some level, "pictures of oneself." The absence of a margin on this print emphasizes the fact that Dunham's shapes cannot be contained and are part of the artist's endless theater of evolution, suggesting multiple possibilities and interpretations well beyond their comic simplicity. With such works, Dunham enriches the long tradition of expressionist abstraction by returning to the irrational world of Surrealism and expanding on the imaginary universes of such figures as artist Philip Guston. Dunham began making prints in 1985 at Universal Limited Art Editions (ULAE) at the invitation of Bill Goldston, who followed Tatyana Grosman as director there in 1982. Dunham was part of a new generation of painters for whom printmaking would assume a major creative role. This is confirmed by his statement that printmaking is now "a part of the way I think." To date, he has made approximately sixty prints, at ULAE and at several other workshops. This print owes its unusual Braille-like surface to a technique pioneered at Two Palms Press by printer David Lasry. The technique uses a 750-ton hydraulic press, formerly employed commercially for molding rubber. Rather than simply printing on paper that is laid over a woodblock, the press molds the paper under enormous pressure, creating deep, sculptural relief. The wood-grain markings seen here are a descendant of Dunham's painted abstractions on wood veneers in the 1980s. In fact, his biomorphic figures emerged from those earlier tangles of lines and shapes. Tactility and surface projections also find precedence in Dunham's paintings, as in works of the 1990s that include Styrofoam balls adhered to their surfaces.
Catlett came of age in the 1930s, an era of legally mandated racial segregation in the United States. Racial and gender inequities were key concerns in her artistic practice, through which she affirmed a steadfast commitment to social and political justice. Catlett trained as a sculptor in the late 1930s and moved to Mexico in 1946, where she focused on printmaking for many years. She made Mother and Child upon her return to sculpture in the mid–1950s. The simplified, rounded forms evoke pre-Columbian and African sculpture as well as the stylized naturalism of earlier politically committed German artists such as Kathe Kollwitz. Catlett's sculpture is a quiet monument to motherhood as experienced by many women across cultures.
Celmins's depictions of expanses of ocean and sky are executed with a meticulous attention to detail that rivals photography. In Ocean Surface Woodcut 1992, she has manipulated the traditional medium of woodcut with incredible delicacy and precision to present a seascape unbounded by sky or land. "There is a feeling of timelessness that is implied in an image of an ocean that really has no boundaries," Celmins has commented. Through her work, she offers an expansive understanding of time and geography as seemingly limitless.
Cézanne painted this hillside scene from direct observation; he felt strongly, he said, that "pictures painted inside, in the studio, will never be as good." He also believed that "when out-of-door scenes are represented, the contrasts between the figures and the ground are astounding and the landscape is magnificent." Indeed, the geometric ocher planes of the buildings—boldly outlined in blue—emerge in focus from the loosely rendered foliage. As the road bends down the hill, it shifts and ultimately is subsumed by the greenery, which is actually composed of a striking array of colors. This is the last painting Cézanne made in the small French village of Montgeroult before returning to his hometown of Aix-en-Provence, where he remained until his death.
Chadwick liked to get under our skin; she was a sensualist who was drawn to things that make us queasy. Raw meat, rotting vegetables, urine, animal fur, and lots and lots of chocolate are among the materials that have figured in her photography and sculpture.Over the past three decades, many artists have concocted their photographic subjects in the studio rather than seeking them in the world at large. This strategy puts a premium on imagination, which Chadwick possessed in abundance. What is more, in the fertile realm of her fancy there was no distinction between feeling and thinking. In Bad Blooms, a series of thirteen photographs made in 1992 and 1993, Chadwick turned to flowers.What could be more natural than flowers? Yet these lush posies are not exactly pretty, and they don't feel entirely natural. The circle is a common form in nature, but the obsessive symmetries of Chadwick's wreaths evoke the ritual perfections of inert geometry. Then there are the goos and liquids, which suggest both the fecund ooze and suck of organic life and the chemical sterility of synthetic gels and detergents. These voluptuous blossoms of paradise are also pungent visions of a nightmare nature remade by humans. Beautiful and vulgar, seductive and repulsive, natural and artificial, feminine and masculine: Chadwick's art merges these opposites in a visceral union that does mischief to the eye and mind.
Chaissac began making art in 1937, experimenting with line and automatic drawing. His self–defined "modern rustic art" developed from blending his untrained style (a product of his working–class background) with theinfluences of Pablo Picasso and Surrealism. In his later years, Chaissac created imaginative compositions that combine ambiguous shapes and puzzlelike figures in works on paper, paintings, and sculptures. In this drawing, Chaissac's solid lines and suggestive outlines are filled in by minute and intricate patterns, giving the work a sense of diversity and movement.
Charles Sheeler's Delmonico Building is a quintessential example of American Precisionism of the 1920s, translated to lithography. A landmark hotel in New York City at the time, the Delmonico was a towering midtown skyscraper, admired for its setback form. The building typifies the kind of structure that Sheeler and other American artists working in the hard-edged, planar, and geometric style known as Cubist-Realism, and later called Precisionism, found inspiring. In the teens, Sheeler made the transition from academically trained painter to cutting-edge modernist through his interest in industrial design and his work as an architectural photographer, along with his exposure to contemporary European art. The artist is not known to have used a photograph as the basis for Delmonico Building, but the subject, unusual vantage point, and use of light relate to his work on the 1920 film Manhatta, a collaboration with photographer Paul Strand that evokes the dynamism of early-twentieth-century New York through avant-garde film techniques. The lithograph Yachts relates to another project that Sheeler had planned with Strand in the 1920s, a film about the New York Yacht Club. Although the film never materialized, Sheeler completed an oil painting and a drawing on the subject in 1922. The print, made two years later, further refines the graceful forms of these earlier works through an elegant use of abstracted detail and subtle handling of gray tones. In only three additional lithographs, Sheeler chose as subjects a barn, a still life, and an industrial landscape, again crystallizing studies of form first explored in other mediums. He made all five of his lithographs between 1918 and 1928 at the workshop of George C. Miller, a well-known printer who collaborated with several important American artists, giving the medium a modern cachet. Sheeler's final print, a color screenprint from 1954, was again an architectural rendering, based on a painting.
Charles Sheeler's Delmonico Building is a quintessential example of American Precisionism of the 1920s, translated to lithography. A landmark hotel in New York City at the time, the Delmonico was a towering midtown skyscraper, admired for its setback form. The building typifies the kind of structure that Sheeler and other American artists working in the hard-edged, planar, and geometric style known as Cubist-Realism, and later called Precisionism, found inspiring. In the teens, Sheeler made the transition from academically trained painter to cutting-edge modernist through his interest in industrial design and his work as an architectural photographer, along with his exposure to contemporary European art. The artist is not known to have used a photograph as the basis for Delmonico Building, but the subject, unusual vantage point, and use of light relate to his work on the 1920 film Manhatta, a collaboration with photographer Paul Strand that evokes the dynamism of early-twentieth-century New York through avant-garde film techniques. The lithograph Yachts relates to a project that Sheeler had planned with Strand in the 1920s, a film about the New York Yacht Club. Although the film never materialized, Sheeler completed an oil painting and a drawing on the subject in 1922. The print, made two years later, further refines the graceful forms of these earlier works through an elegant use of abstracted detail and subtle handling of gray tones. In only three additional lithographs, Sheeler chose as subjects a barn, a still life, and an industrial landscape, again crystallizing studies of form first explored in other mediums. He made all five of his lithographs between 1918 and 1928 at the workshop of George C. Miller, a well-known printer who collaborated with several important American artists, giving the medium a modern cachet. Sheeler's final print, a color screenprint from 1954, was again an architectural rendering, based on a painting.
Chica (also called Junior) is a modular system of plastic components that can be fitted together in a variety of ways to create seats, tables, and play structures. The elements, made in four bright colors, are light enough for older children to play with and reconfigure, in a product that exemplifies the fun, flexible spirit of Italian postwar design. These prototypes, featured in MoMA's 1972 exhibition Italy: The New Domestic Landscape, demonstrated curator Emilio Ambasz's concept of "contestatory" design: objects with the potential to create environments that were “flexible in function and [permitting] multiple modes of use and arrangement.”
Chott el-Djerid (A Portrait in Light and Heat) almost magically captures the optical and acoustic distortions of nature. Focused on landscape, the video work dwells briefly on the snowy plains of midwestern America and Saskatchewan, then abruptly switches to the arid Tunisian desert. Viola investigates the world of illusion and how it is made. He works by slowly discovering the distinctive character of a place, probing its power and energy, drawing upon the associations it evokes, and searching instinctively for its archetypal symbols. In Tunisia, he was fascinated by the pastel-colored desert mirages floating mysteriously near the horizon.To shoot Chott el-Djerid, the artist used one video camera set on a tripod and meticulously framed his subject from a fixed vantage point. He would only begin filming when he considered ideal atmospheric conditions to have occurred; at times he waited up to several days. He moved his camera only a few inches forward or backward between many shots so that he could fabricate a zoom during editing. In his studio, Viola carefully developed the rhythm of this nonverbal narrative of ordinary events happening in real time. Its pace compels viewers to assume a mindset of dreamlike suspended animation. It is filled with ambient natural sounds that temper its sense of otherworldliness: for example, the viewer first identifies an oncoming pair of motorcycles through aural, rather than visual, cues.
Christian Zervos (1889-1970), Paris, by 1945 [1]; Carlo Frua de Angeli, Milan, by 1950 [2]; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, January 1952 (Mrs. Simon Guggenheim Fund).[1] Lender to Exhibition of Paintings by Picasso and Matisse, Victoria and Albert Museum, London, December 1945 (no. 25:  Night Fishing at Antibes, August 1939; M. Christian Zervos). Included in the XXIVth Biennal, Venice, 1948 (no. 21). [2] Collection files, Department of Painting and Sculpture, The Museum of Modern Art, New York.
Closely associated with the composer John Cage since the late 1930s, Cunningham established his own dance company in 1953 to explore ways to apply to choreography the same kinds of processes of chance that Cage was applying to music. By using chance operations Cunningham intended to encourage a play of possibilities beyond the range of his own choreographic imagination and memory. As part of his work he made charts like this one for every element of the performance, including movements, durations, and directions in space. Suite by Chance, one of the best–known of his early works, was first performed at a private studio performance in New York City in 1952.
Close Pin Prop, like several of Richard Serra's sculptures,balances upright against a wall without the aid of any external support. Serra has spoken of his art as "nonmetaphorical, nondepictive, and nonillusionist," and considers the process of construction and the weighty physicality of his sculptures to be of utmost importance in their meaning. "To deprive art of its uselessness is to make other than art. I am interested in sculpture which is nonutilitarian, nonfunctional. Any use is a misuse." The titles of many of Serra's works allude to artists and public figures; the title of Close Pin Prop refers to the artist Chuck Close.
Collaborators since 1979, Diller and Scofidio have made the relationship between architecture and technology a pervasive theme in their work. The collage drawing TV in Picture Window Apparatus shows them manipulating a view of the ocean through the frame of a picture window and the technology of a video camera and monitor. Rather than the view itself, the representation of the view becomes their primary interest; indeed the monitor obstructs the actual view, while the camera transmits a copy of the view to the screen. Thus the drawing represents three different types of view, real, framed, and virtual, using a different medium for each one: a cutout magazine reproduction is pasted onto a pencil drawing of a plan and partial interior elevation of the picture window. Color photocopies of exterior perspectives, located beneath a Mylar sheet that covers the entire drawing, tie the parts of the image together. The right side of the drawing, a study of the mechanisms of the monitor's support arm, illustrates how the inhabitant can control the location of the television image.
Collection Bonjean, Paris. [Until 1931?]Julien Levy Gallery, New York. [After 1931] - 1940The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Purchased from Julien Levy Galley with the Abby Aldrich Rockefeller Fund, 1940
"Come, let me clutch thee," read the title of the New Yorker's 1954 feature on Lamb, also known as "the handle man." Lamb's singular devotion to the human hand developed through his study of anatomy while executing medical illustrations for surgeons. By 1941—having observed seven hundred pairs of hands—he began designing the optimal ergonomic handle, which he patented in 1945. Known as the Lamb Wedge-Lock Handle ("It wedges the fingers apart," he said, "and locks the thumb and fingers on place"), his design fits both right and left hands and does not roll or slide when gripped. In 1948 MoMA mounted an exhibition devoted entirely to Lamb's handles, which, though applied first to kitchen equipment, were later used for surgical tools, gavels, squeegees, hairdryers, suitcases, screwdrivers, and police clubs, among many other objects.
Commenting on The Swimming Pool, his largest cutout, Matisse said, "I have always adored the sea, and now that I can no longer go for a swim, I have surrounded myself with it." Indeed, this nearly fifty-four-foot-long frieze of blue bathers silhouetted against a white rectangular band was designed to adorn the walls of Matisse's dining room at the Hôtel Régina in Nice. At the time of its creation, the artist was restricted to his bed or to a wheelchair, and he conjured this lyrical depiction of the natural world for his personal enjoyment.Read from right to left, beginning and ending with a representation of a starfish, the contours of the diving or swimming forms eventually dissolve until the blue shapes define the splashing water and the negative white space represents the abstract figures. In a dynamic interplay with the background support, each bather flows rhythmically into the next, sometimes breaking free of the horizontal band in a graceful arabesque. Matisse combines contrasting viewing angles—from above looking down into the water or sideways as if from in the water—so that the different postures of the figures themselves determine the composition as a whole. With this spirited yet serene aquatic imagery, the artist brings to brilliant culmination his career-long desire to create an idealized environment.The Swimming Pool. 1952
Commissioned for exclusive use by the Walker Art Center in Minneapolis, Walker is versatile enough to be used by the museum's in-house graphic designers for all of the institution's diverse programming needs and yet is instantly and reliably recognizable as part of an image and brand. Walker is a sans-serif typeface with optional serifs for certain letters, special ligatures, joining strokes, and a flexible underlining system. By incorporating all these options, Carter created one of the very first interactive and mutable typefaces, a groundbreaking achievement not only in typography but also in branding and image design.
Commonly called the Bracelet of Life, the MUAC is used in the field by volunteers with Doctors Without Borders to identify cases of acute malnutrition as quickly as possible in children ages six months to five years. The color-coded tool can be used by any language group. The band is wrapped around the child's upper left arm; the circumference of the arm corresponds to a color, ranging from green (normal) to orange (moderate malnutrition) to red (serious malnutrition and risk of death). The Bracelet of Life campaign, which draws attention to the devastating famine in Sudan, began in 1998.
Completely made of carbon fiber, the Carbon Chair is a high-tech update of the well-known molded fiberglass chair designed by Charles and Ray Eames in 1950. It was intended to be an exact replica of the Eames design, complete with the so-called Eiffel Tower base. The base proved unstable, however, so Wanders and Pot redesigned the chair with the more stable leg configuration seen in this example.
Composed of 110 individually printed sheets, this monumental work is a complex technical achievement. A drawing by Kentridge was divided up and transferred in pieces to 110 metal printing plates, then each plate was printed on unbound pages from a 1950 edition of Chambers's Encyclopedia. Featuring an Egyptian temple, stage machinery, and a falcon, as well as familiar Kentridge motifs—including a lightbulb, megaphone, and camera—the composition resonates with Mozart's opera The Magic Flute (1791), which Kentridge directed in 2005, and, given its grand scale, invokes the space of the theater.
Composed of vinylite and manufactured by a chemical company, this chair typifies the application of wartime materials and production techniques to a postwar context. Miller was an employee of Gallowhur Chemical Company. During World War II he collaborated with a cousin of Franklin D. Roosevelt to design a pocket-sized water desalination device as standard equipment for Army and Navy fliers.
Conceptual in nature, Hanne Darboven's art deals with the passage of time and implies the human desire to stop it. The main component of her practice is continuous daily writing that both articulates the measurement of days and eliminates their arbitrary separation. Systems of ordering time based on numbers, musical notations, and calendars have been her principal points of departure. These systems, along with uncensored accounts of her daily activities presented in serial formats, create a coded history in which she conflates the autobiographical with the collective. Sometimes Darboven's cursive lines simply emulate writing, but actually are devoid of syntax and content and represent only a temporal process. She often presents her work in installations of small, identically sized sheets of paper containing this writing. She has also created artist's books that combine these sheets as pages, and a small but significant body of prints, often in portfolio formats that support her serial investigations. Photographs, some taken by the artist and others found, also appear in her work, adding new references and contexts. Harburg Sand depicts six identical images of an old postcard of a suburb of Hamburg, yet implies a sequence. The text on the first image, dated June 12, 1988, describes the artist watching television, while her mother looks at a clothing catalogue. The other images are progressively dated from June 13 to June 17. Texts begin with the words "work harburg today," and the word "today" is crossed out before the numerical indication of the date. Calculations add together digits comprising these dates. Such numerical, textual, and cursive-line juxtapositions emphasize Darboven's contradictory sense of time as both passing and stopped by her intervention.
Configuring rectilinear blocks and beams in ways that suggest figures in motion, Joel Shapiro creates sculptures that animate the cool, reductive forms of Minimalism. After first constructing miniature houses, chairs, and other objects in the 1970s, he began making his signature large-scale sculptures in wood and bronze in the early 1980s. Shapiro's first prints were etched fingerprints, made in 1970 at the New York Graphic Workshop. He has worked intermittently in printmaking ever since, completing more than fifty editions in collaboration with several New York publishers, who encouraged him to try his hand at the different techniques available at various local workshops. Among others, these include lithographs at Derrière L'Étoile Studios, screenprints at Simca Print Artists, aquatints with Aldo Crommelynck, and etchings with Maurice Payne. Shapiro first explored the woodcut technique in 1985 at Universal Limited Art Editions, where he used printing blocks that were not carved but rather assembled using fragments taken from a dollhouse. The work shown here is one of several woodcuts that Shapiro subsequently produced at The Grenfell Press. Devoid of the expressionist style and content most commonly associated with woodcuts, it demonstrates the flexibility of the technique to embrace different artistic approaches. Created from three separate blocks cut into simple rectangular shapes, this print emphasizes contrasting grains of different wood veneers. By retaining the scalloped edges that were left after the shapes were gouged from larger blocks, Shapiro underscores the literal presence of these sculpturelike elements and leaves a tangible reminder of his physical process. He also brings a sculptor's instinctive feel for spatial relationships to the final composition, in which the slightly skewed blocks seem to shift forward and backward within the generous margins of the paper.
Consigned to Société Anonyme, New York, N.Y. (Katherine S. Dreier). 1926 -Katherine S. Dreier (1877-1952), West Redding and Milford, Connecticut, - 1953The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Katherine S. Dreier Bequest, 1953
Constantly experimenting with new materials and painting techniques, Thomkins developed his "lackskin" (paint skin) technique in 1955. To create this psychedelic imagery he poured enamel paint into a tub of water; given its chemical properties, the paint pooled on the surface. The artist composed the biomorphic images and color effects by blowing on the surface of the liquid and cutting pieces of thread through it. Paper, placed directly onto the water's surface, pulled off the paint to make the final image.
Constructed by a carpenter in accordance with Duchamp's instructions, Fresh Widow is a reduced scale version of the traditional floor-length French window. Duchamp covered the glass panes with panels of black leather, obstructing the metaphorical view through the window that is associated with illusionistic painting. With the change of three letters, Duchamp transforms "French window" into the title "Fresh Widow," a pun that points to the recent war and the bawdy tradition of amorous (or "fresh") widows of soldiers. The inscription at the base, "COPYRIGHT ROSE SELAVY 1920," is the first time the name of Duchamp's female alter ego appears on one of his works.
Contemporary Dutch designers have been markedly innovative in experimenting with materials, a trend that crosses international boundaries. Readily available at any hardware store, Graumans's simple materials—eighty-five black cords, sockets, and light bulbs—yield a grand chandelier through the strength of his design. Gathered in a unified bundle at the ceiling, the cords flare out to accommodate the mass of lightbulbs below.Graumans's 85 Lamps was selected for inclusion in the first design collection offered by Droog Design, established in 1994 by designers and theorists Gijs Bakker and Renny Ramakers. It is a firm that has captured much attention for its stance against consumerism and its use of industrial and recycled materials. The diverse works of the talented young designers chosen for The Museum of Modern Art design collection celebrate ingenuity, economy of form, and a minimalist aesthetic, as does this lamp by Graumans.
Coplans worked as a painter, writer, editor, and curator and had several false starts as a photographer. In 1984, at the age of sixty–four, he hit upon what would be his exclusive subject for the rest of his life—his own naked body. Over the course of twenty years, Coplans published some twenty books of photographs of his body, including volumes devoted to pictures of his feet and his hands. None of them shows his head.Before he made his photographs, Coplans used a video camera operated by an assistant to record various poses to see if they were what he wanted. In designing his poses he drew on his long and varied life experience (in addition to his work in the arts, he fought in World War II) and especially on his extensive knowledge of the history of art. This included painting, sculpture, and photography, from ancient Egyptian, Greek, and Roman art to blunt twentieth–century photographs by Weegee, plus a full awareness of contemporary abstract art and performance art. Although the masculinity of Coplans's pictures continues to be somewhat shocking (it is the naked female form that dominates the history of visual art), it is their depiction of his aged body that is most provocative. In this photograph he balances on one foot, a strong yet vulnerable figure in an ersatz frieze.
Couplet IV is the last in a series of four works named for a pair of successive lines of verse that rhyme and are the same length. The painting illustrates Marden's enduring relationship with painting, maintained while his contemporaries abandoned the medium and began to question its agency. Marden has declared painting his chosen "method" or "path" and has said, "To me, one of the most compelling aspects of modernism is its commitment to constant striving, to improve on what was there before." This painting marks a departure from the style of the artist's early monochromatic works and conveys his desire to achieve perfection through his craft. Of the large size of the works in this series, Marden has said, "I chose the nine–foot height because I wanted something on a grander scale, something specifically less human in scale."The elegant lines of Couplet IV unfold in an overlapping, intertwining web that cannot be untangled. The inseparable network of layered, muted colors imparts a sense of depth, and the work achieves balance and harmony through the lyrical application of paint. Couplet IV suggests Marden's admiration for Paul Cézanne and Jackson Pollock and his interest in calligraphy.
Created a year before South Africa's first nonracial democratic election, as right-wing opposition escalated and police brutality persisted, General isolates one of Kentridge's heartless protagonists. The vigorous line work here was printed from a rigid polycarbonate sheet the artist incised using an electric engraver. Kentridge made several experimental impressions, including this one, on sheets of paper that he first painted with watercolors—creating vivid coloration uncharacteristic of his work overall.
Created in the immediate aftermath of World War II, Painting is an olique but damning image of an anonymous public figure. Half-obscured by an umbrella, he is dressed in a dark formal suit—the unofficial uniform of British politicians of the day—punctuated by an incongruously bright yellow boutonnière. But his deathly complexion and toothy grimace suggest a deep brutality beneath his proper exterior. The sense of menace is accentuated by glaring colors and the cow carcasses suspended in a cruciform behind him, a motif drawn from Bacon's childhood fascination with butcher shops, but also a possible reference to Old Master treatments of the same subject.
Created with pencil, gouache, and stamps on kraft paper, Dittborn's landmark Airmail paintings of the early 1980s were normally folded and mailed in large envelopes to various artistic venues. The creases in this work were created by the constant folding and unfolding of the large sheet of paper throughout its journey, underlining the physical quality of passing time. By repeating the icon of a house in each compartment, Dittborn highlights the concept of a transient place, where one is in constant arrival and departure.
Creating painterly fields of color in this unusually large aquatint, Johns has built a composition in multiple sections, each populated by elements the artist frequently employs in his work: a child's silhouette, the vase/faces optical illusion, a ladder, rotating discs, and spots of color. In addition, a yellow cloth is nailed to the ladder's upper rung—perhaps related to the handkerchief in The Weeping Woman, I (1937), by Pablo Picasso, whose work has been an ever-present influence on Johns. Printmaking is an integral part of Johns's practice, in large part due to his collaboration, since 1960, with Universal Limited Art Editions (ULAE), a pioneering workshop established on Long Island in 1957. The Museum collects an impression from each edition published by ULAE, documenting the ongoing activities of the seminal workshop through this archive.
Creed stipulates that this seven-part drawing should be arranged in an order that gives "the illusion of randomness." Equality among colors, materials, works of art, and actions is of utmost importance to the artist, who numbers his works sequentially rather than giving them individual titles. Though Creed has filled each of these standard-sized sheets with ink of a single color, variation is nonetheless apparent in the multitude of horizontal pen strokes that make visible the repetitive motion of his gestures. To Creed, "rhythm, whether musical or visual, is a comfort. Its like putting up a ruler, or a grid, against the world, so that the changing world, messy as it is, can be made into a pattern—like looking at a garden through a fence."
Critic J. Hoberman has described Ernie Gehr as "cinema's virtuoso minimalist," and Side/Walk/Shuttle is compelling evidence of this claim. As Gehr recalls, "The initial inspiration for the film was an outdoor glass elevator and the visual, spatial, and gravitational possibilities it presented me with. The work was also informed by an interest in panoramas, the urban landscape, as well as the topography of San Francisco. Finally, the shape and character of the work was tempered by reflections upon a lifetime of displacement, moving from place to place and haunted by recurring memories of other places I once passed through." The film consists of twenty–five moving shots, most less than ninety seconds in length and all taken from within the glass elevator of San Francisco's Fairmont Hotel. The city swoops and tilts before our eyes, making the viewer question the very laws of gravity. Indeed, the sense of wonder Gehr creates and the giddy pleasure he conveys through the simple visual manipulation of the physical world make him a natural successor to the world's first filmmakers, artists who invented a "cinema of attractions" that was grounded in the wonder and sensuality of the filmgoing experience itself.
Cucullu is best known for large-scale installations of wall drawings made with watercolor paint and sticky contact paper, among other materials. Like those works, this print portfolio juxtaposes representational fragments and abstract elements with imagery derived from a wide range of sources, including the political history of Argentina, traditions of revolution and protest, marginalized historical figures, literary references, pop culture, and the artist's own personal recollections. The result is a unique combination of personal and universal, "high" and "low" subject matter. Here the artist factors in a participatory component, allowing the sheets to be installed in various ways, a process that he believes will create new narratives and perspectives.
Curator, Paola Antonelli: This collection of therapeutical objects is the work of Mathieu Lehanneur, a young designer based in Paris, France. He thinks that ever since little pharmacies, little apothecaries, in little villages and in various areas of the city disappeared -- with them, a whole piece of the relationship that people have with medicine has disappeared as well. We have lost the narrator, we have lost the person, the guidance that tells us how often, when and how to take the medicines. Lehanneur tried to recuperate this particular narration in the objects, in the packaging of the medicines themselves [...].These objects are still at a purely conceptual stage, of course. They involve the manufacturing of completely new packaging, and in some cases, they also involve the delivery of medicines in a completely different way. Nonetheless, they are a very strong reminder of the humanity of patients, a humanity that needs to be addressed by pharmaceutical companies, by making medicines more approachable, more understandable in their use, and easier to take.
Current's painted undulating black and white lines appear to vibrate and form three-dimensional depressions that quiver on the painting's surface. The juxtaposition of black and white activates the painting with the semblance of movement and the appearance of other colors. In this and other early works, Riley "wanted the space between the picture plane and the spectator to be active." She later explored color contrast.
Cyan's images frequently evoke the past through the use of a complex layering of disparate historical images. Its posters and other graphic designs suggest the hazelike state of memory from which only bits and pieces can be retrieved. The innovative use of collage, made possible by the use of computer software, is an extension of the photomontage and photogram experiments performed by many modernist designers in the 1920s and 1930s. In addition, cyan frequently uses simple sans-serif type organized in a grid that appears to follow many of the rules of the "new typography" practiced at the Bauhaus in the 1920s. Computer technology was not available to this five-person design collective from the former East Berlin until after the fall of the Berlin Wall in November 1989. Since then, they have skillsfully mixed new visual forms—produced with the aid of sophisticated technologies—and more traditional modernist typography, creating posters that are extremely inventive and yet true in spirit to the modernist concern for clarity. Much of their work has been for German cultural institutions; among them, appropriately, is the Bauhaus Foundation Dessau.
Cyril Power already had a successful career to his credit when he decided to become an art student in 1922 at the age of fifty. A practicing architect, Power had written a multivolume book, English Medieval Architecture, which he illustrated himself, and had taught architecture at colleges and universities in London. Several years after finishing his military service in World War I, Power left his family and decamped for London, where he enrolled in art school with Sybil Andrews, a younger artist who became his collaborator for nearly twenty years. In 1925 Power was a member of the founding faculty of the Grosvenor School of Art, a liberal institution that encouraged students to think for themselves. It was there that he met Claude Flight, Britain's most devoted proponent of the linoleum cut technique, and began to study under him. He eventually completed forty-six linoleum cuts and also made numerous drypoints and monotypes, as well as works in oil, watercolor, and pastel. Like many of his contemporaries, Power was fascinated by the new machine age in which he lived, surrounded by fast cars, locomotives, and other new technologies. These were often the motifs featured in his work, as he attempted to depict the speed and dynamism of the modern experience. Speed Trial was inspired by Bluebird, the racecar that broke the land-speed record seven times between 1927 and 1935 with speeds ranging from 174 to 301 miles per hour. Via a loose series of repetitive, rhythmic curves, Power conjures up a sense of the rushing wind created as the aerodynamic car speeds past the viewer. He printed a variety of experimental trial proofs, such as this one in a single color, before finalizing the composition, adding a background color and creating a standardized edition.
Dalí had recently joined the Surrealist movement when he executed this drawing, which served as the frontispiece for the "Second Surrealist Manifesto" when it was published in a limited edition of sixty copies in 1930. The composition's upper-right quadrant is dominated by an anthropomorphic chain of flesh, in which a human head turns into a lion, which becomes a misshapen,ant-infested profile. The succession continues with a bird's head, a mustachioed female bust, anothe male profile, and two more frontal faces, one animal and one human. These fantastic characters stretch out in a string of anatomy that might have continued endlessly were it not for the edge of the sheet.
Dalí rendered his fantastic visions with meticulous verisimilitude, giving the representations of dreams a tangible and credible appearance. In what he called "hand painted dream photographs," hard objects become inexplicably limp, time bends, and metal attracts ants like rotting flesh. The monstrous creature draped across the painting's center resembles the artist's own face in profile; its long eyelashes seem insectlike or even sexual, as does what may or may not be a tongue oozing from its nose like a fat snail.
[Daniel-Henry Kahnweiler, Paris]André Lefèvre, Paris. 1951 - 1965. Acquired from aboveSold at Second Sale of André Lefèvre Collection, Palais Galliera, Paris, 25 November 1965Galerie Beyeler, Basel. 1965 - 1970The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Acquired by exchange from Galerie Beyeler, Basel, in 1970
Daniel-Henry Kahnweiler, ParisBrenner & Coady Gallery, New York (a.k.a. Washington Square Gallery, New York ). [Likely purchased from Kahnweiler before 1914]Dr. Phoebus Aaron Theodor Levene, New YorkThe Museum of Modern Art, New York. Bequest of Anna Erickson Levene in memory of her husband, Dr. Phoebus Aaron Theodor Levene, 1947
Daniel-Henry Kahnweiler, ParisBrenner & Coady Gallery, New York (a.k.a. Washington Square Gallery, New York ). [Likely purchased from Kahnweiler before 1914]Private Collection, Paris. By 1929Dr. Phoebus Aaron Theodor Levene, New YorkThe Museum of Modern Art, New York. Bequest of Anna Erickson Levene in memory of her husband, Dr. Phoebus Aaron Theodor Levene, 1947
Daniel-Henry Kahnweiler, ParisPaul Eluard, Paris. Before 1932Mme Lise Deharme, Paris. By 1942 – Auction, Hotel Drouot, March 6, 1953Sidney Janis Gallery, New York. Purchased at Lise Deharme auction, 1953Nelson A. Rockefeller, New York. Acquired from Sidney Janis, 1953 – 1979The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Nelson A. Rockefeller Bequest, 1979
Darboven was at the forefront of Conceptual art from its beginnings in the late 1960s until her death. Evincing a strict sense of order and an obsessive discipline, her work uses numerical systems to explore time and the documentation of her life—a mode of working she likened to "a way of writing without describing." While living in New York City from 1966 to 1968, Darboven developed her characteristic painstakingly choreographed lines, producing the rhythmic cadence visible in this untitled work made around 1972. Darboven worked in near-isolation during her time in New York but did befriend the artist Sol LeWitt, whose work shares an intellectual and formal relationship with her own. Both artists created systematic, iterative visual styles, thereby "[freeing] art from both representation and expressive emotion," LeWitt noted. LeWitt was "struck by the originality and depth of [Darboven's] work," which he believed helped free art from representation, emphasizing ideas over aesthetics. Her emphasis on process and duration makes time both the raw material and the subject of her art. Like a journal or a diary, her work reflects her life, but her use of mathematical principles keeps her personal history private.
David Hammons's assemblages, installations, and performances address issues relevant to African-American and African culture, identity, and experience. Using unconventional, often found materials, he has created projects that include pyramids of human hair collected from the floors of Harlem barbershops and snowballs that he sells on the sidewalk. His drawings, made from Harlem dirt bounced off a basketball onto paper, could conceptually be termed "prints." Hammon's statement from the 1960s, "I feel it my moral obligation as a black artist to try to graphically document what I feel socially," continues to illuminate his work. An artist who came of age during the height of the civil rights and black nationalist movements, Hammons established his reputation during this period with his series of some five hundred politically charged body prints. Here the artist's body, sometimes clothed, sometimes naked, was smeared with grease and functioned as a printing plate when he pressed himself against a sheet of paper. He then sprinkled dry pigments onto the greasy markings, sometimes adding other imagery in screenprint. Through this reconceptualization of printmaking, a medium steeped in tradition, the artist created his own representations of the black male body. Other printed works he has made over the years have been equally atypical. With his stencil Free Nelson Mandela, Hammons once again utilized a printmaking technique in a kind of performance addressing social and political concerns. Spray-painted on both indoor and outdoor sites while Mandela was still in prison after more than twenty years, the stencil was then sprayed on torn billboard papers to create this print. Its subject is a concrete signifier of what was denied by authorities, but was indeed true for many black South Africans-that the spirit of Mandela remained and that his cause could not be extinguished.
David Webster makes paintings of humans based on X-rays, magnified cellular views, and illustrations from medical textbooks. Every year, the artist switches his focus from one part of the body to another, and Cerebellar Islands is part of a series that concentrates on the human brain. Webster feels that microscopic structures, such as those of the brain, often resemble the things in the larger world; he has said, "The universe can be found within ourselves."
Deadpan is inspired by a scene from Buster Keaton's 1928 slapstick film Steamboat Bill, Jr., in which the eponymous character stands in front of a dilapidated house as its facade crashes down around him. Bill's luck and evident naiveté place him in a spot where an open window hits the ground, thus leaving him unscathed amid dust and debris. In McQueen's remake the artist casts himself in the starring role, but unlike Keaton, who is a small man in a large landscape, the artist appears imposing in scale throughout a sequence of shots that capture the same action from different angles. While Keaton bolts from the scene after a comical delayed reaction, McQueen remains standing stoically in the wreckage, unflinching in the face of near disaster.
Deaf from birth, Castle never learned to speak, sign, read, or write. His art, intimate in scale and focus, was the means by which he conveyed his inner vision and inventiveness, and he created a visual language inspired by his Idaho home and daily life. Refusing formal art training, Castle devised his own methods. He drew in a mixture of soot and saliva with a sharpened stick on found surfaces and created thousands of drawings, constructions, and books throughout his adult life.
Decoy highlights Johns's persistent theme of memory, presenting an amalgam of his former imagery—the ale can in the center, the frieze of his sculptures along the bottom, and color words and body fragments from an earlier print. Johns juxtaposes hand–drawn passages with photographic depictions, a feature made significantly simpler by his use here, for the first time, of ULAE's offset press.
De Kooning took an unusually long time to create Woman, I, making numerous preliminary studies and repainting the work repeatedly. The hulking, wild–eyed subject draws upon an amalgam of female archetypes, from Paleolithic fertility goddesses to contemporary pin–up girls. Her threatening stare and ferocious grin are heightened by de Kooning's aggressive brushwork and frantic paint application. Combining voluptuousness and menace, Woman, I reflects the age–old cultural ambivalence between reverence for and fear of the power of the feminine.
De Kooning used oil and enamel sign paint to make this black and white abstraction, which he created in the same year as he held his first solo exhibition. He began Painting by transferring segments of figurative drawings to the canvas, then applying layers of paint. He maintained that "even abstract shapes must have a likeness." Indeed, these black forms bounded by white seem to approximate letters or human forms that never yield full legibility. Within the confines of a black and white palette, de Kooning delivers a complex and rich handling of paint: it drips, bleeds, congeals into solid forms, or dissolves into diaphanous streaks—all of which result in a densely packed painting composed with a great economy of means.
Delaunay was fascinated by how the interaction of colors produces sensations of depth and movement, without reference to the natural world. In Simultaneous Contrasts that movement is the rhythm of the cosmos, for the painting's circular frame is a sign for the universe, and its flux of reds and oranges, greens and blues, is attuned to the sun and the moon, the rotation of day and night. But the star and planet, refracted by light, go undescribed in any literal way. "The breaking up of form by light creates colored planes," Delaunay said. "These colored planes are the structure of the picture, and nature is no longer a subject for description but a pretext." Indeed, he had decided to abandon "images or reality that come to corrupt the order of color."The poet Guillaume Apollinaire christened Delaunay's style "Orphism," after Orpheus, the musician of Greek legend whose eloquence on the lyre is a mythic archetype for the power of art. The musicality of Delaunay's work lay in color, which he studied closely. In fact, he derived the phrase "Simultaneous Contrasts" from the treatise On the Law of the Simultaneous Contrast of Colors, published in 1839 by Michel-Eugène Chevreul. Absorbing Chevreul's scientific analyses, Delaunay has here gone beyond them into a mystical belief in color, its fusion into unity symbolizing the possibility for harmony in the chaos of the modern world.
DeLuxe consists of sixty prints involving a riot of materials, including velvet, toy ice cubes, and "googly" eyeballs, and techniques ranging from old-fashioned photogravure to recent developments in digital technology. Each print began with a magazine page selected from the artist's collection of titles geared toward African American audiences, such as Sepia, Our World, and Ebony, dating from the 1930s to the 1970s. While some of the prints are based on celebrity features or news stories, the majority are based on advertisements. Many of these suggest means for personal improvement and play on readers' desire for transformation via products such as wigs, hair pomades, acne treatments, and skin-bleaching creams. To create these works, Gallagher drew and redrew, masked out and added text, cut and pasted images, and collaged on three-dimensional elements. The resulting images are intensely personalized, transformed in form and content.In a deft commentary on race, racism, and cultural identity, DeLuxe addresses the complex role hair plays in African and African American culture: it is a means of ornament, adornment, and personal expression; a signifier of cultural identity and difference; and a talisman for both strength and protection.
Demeter refers to classical sculpture in both title and presentation. In Greek mythology, Demeter was the goddess of agriculture, but this bulbous, primordial mass of matter, set on a bronze, heavily volumetric pedestal, is a far cry from her idealized classical representation. In his sculpture, William Tucker implies the presence of the body in abstract art with references to ancient art and mythology. The artist has written, "I see the role of contemporary sculpture as preserving and protecting the source of mystery, of the unknown, in public life."
Demuth began painting still life arrangements around 1915, and spreads of fruit, vegetables, and flowers remained a compelling subject for him throughout his career. Here, an end-of-summer harvest of peaches and ears of corn, complete with husks and silks, is presented apparently casually, the forms first outlined in pencil and then completed with passages of watercolor. Our focus is drawn to the precise details of these natural forms, and to the play of light off their surfaces—the work provides no sense of background or context. Demuth's works on paper were widely collected by Abby Aldrich Rockefeller, one of the founders of The Museum of Modern Art, and she ultimately gave many of them to MoMA.
Denise René Galerie, Paris?Hans Mayer Galerie, Düsseldorf, 1971?The Riklis Collection of McCrory Corporation. By 1977The Museum of Modern Art, New York. The Riklis Collection of McCrory Corporation, 1983
Departing from his earlier techniques of assemblage, in which spatial arrangements were created through the layering of planes of material (such as wood veneer, photographs, and acrylic sheets) with architectural drawing, Mies van der Rohe populated this postwar proposal for a convention hall using a picture of attendees at the 1952 U.S. Republican National Convention, taken from Life magazine. Several copies of the image are montaged together to create multiple vanishing points. The activity of the floor is contrasted with the ceiling above— a two–way grid of interwoven deep steel trusses that takes up half the page. Veined green marble hung with presidential seals and an appliquéd American flag bounds the arena. The clear-span structure of the Convention Hall evokes a new spatial order made possible by modern technology: a column–free, open interior space. The cut–and–pasted reference to real events brings with it an ambiguous, uneasy relationship to politics and media culture.
Deschenes engages creatively with the relationships between abstraction and representation and the uniquely handmade and the mechanically reproducible. Among her experimental photograms—cameraless photographs made by placing objects directly on photosensitive paper and exposing it to light—is Moiré #25. To create this work, the artist took a sheet of perforated paper, placed it against a well–lit window, and recorded two exposures on eight-by-ten-inch black-and-white negatives. She then superimposed the two negatives slightly off-kilter on an enlarger. Printed on color photographic paper, the final image features a unique moiré pattern and a startlingly vibrant optical effect.
Deschenes's work expands upon photographic concepts, investigating the relationships between the mechanics of seeing, image-making processes, and modes of display. In Tilt/Swing (360° field of vision, version 1), the artist gives physical form to the concept illustrated in a 1935 drawing by Herbert Bayer, a Bauhaus-trained graphic designer, architect, and sculptor who designed The Museum of Modern Art's 1938 exhibition Bauhaus 1919–1928. In this diagram, Bayer imagined an arrangement of artworks on all six walls of a room, including the floor and ceiling, to create what he described as "an inclusive picture of all [viewpoint] possibilities," inviting the viewer to look in any direction, rather than simply straight ahead, as in a traditional gallery presentation.Deschenes has brought Bayer's principle of "extended vision" to life with six photograms (photographic images made without using a camera) created by exposing photosensitive paper to the subtly varying light from the moon, stars, and surrounding buildings. The photograms act as hazy mirrors, reflecting fragments of their gallery setting back onto the other panels and onto the gallery itself, and at the same time accumulating traces of these settings as their surfaces oxidize in response to shifting atmospheric conditions. In this way, the work retains an ever-growing memory of the situations in which it is exhibited, belying the notion that a photograph represents a single moment that has passed.
Describing Gourds in 1945, Matisse recalled that he had created "a composition of objects that do not touch—but nonetheless participate in the same intimacy." Its surface reveals that he achieved this effect after repeatedly adjusting and transposing forms. The austerity and monumentality of the canvas are complementary to The Moroccans, also of 1916. These qualities may have helped Matisse develop the luminous aspects of the larger canvas. In Gourds, he explained, he began "to use pure black as a color of light and not as a color of darkness."
Desert Seal, a foldable lightweight tent, is suitable for extreme environments. It makes the most of the desert's steep daily temperature curve by means of a solar-powered fan positioned at the top opening of the tent, which circulates cool air during the day and the warm air radiating from the desert floor at night; solar film-coated Mylar is being tested for added energy gain. The tents are tall enough that a person can stand fully upright inside. Educated as architects, Vittori and Vogler met at a congress of the European Space Agency and they have been separately involved in space design. The study for these tents was initiated by the agency to promote the application of inflatable technology and high-tech textile materials in extreme climates on earth.
Designed to be a wearable shelter, this parka features forty-four pockets that can store food, medicine, and tools. If the weather gets cold, the pockets can be stuffed with newspaper or any other insulating material. All the pockets can accommodate the optional Final Home down cushions, which transform the parka into a down jacket. The parka can be made to suit any body type by simply stuffing certain pockets with extra materials to provide a tighter fit. The Final Home Bear, a snuggly companion, can also be stashed into one of the pockets as insulation.
Despite widespread campaigns to inform the general public about the importance of condom use in preventing the spread of sexually transmitted diseases (including HIV), their use in South Africa is still alarmingly low. One of the most often quoted reasons for not using them is that their painstaking application interferes with the sexual act. This cheap, fast, and innovative packaging, no bigger than the usual condom casing, allows the product to be unwrapped and fitted in three seconds, while at the same time protecting it from unhygienic handling. The applicator is sealed into a foil pouch together with the condom. When bent, the foil splits open on the correct side, and the applicator pops up and slides the condom out.
Developed by Brooklyn-based Crye Precision in cooperation with the US Army Natick Soldier Center, this camouflage—which exploits optical illusions and high-resolution digital fades from one color to another—comes in one standardized pattern and colorway that is suitable for use anywhere, whether desert, mountain, or jungle. The MultiCam's base color is more neutral than a desert or woodland, and the pattern itself is subtle enough to reflect the shades of any surrounding area, thus allowing it to be adaptable to multiple environments, seasons, elevations, and light conditions.
Dijkstra first photographed Almerisa—a Bosnian girl whose family had relocated to Amsterdam—as part of a project documenting children of refugees. She continued photographing her and made eight photographs over eleven years. The images maintain a consistent compositional format, showing an isolated figure seated in distinct interior settings, looking incrementally more modern as time passes. The pictures not only document Almerisa's development from childhood through adolescence and into adulthood but also record her progression through cultural and geographic displacement.
Diller's encounter in 1933 with the work and writings of Dutch de Stijl artists such as Piet Mondrian resulted in a radical shift in his art. Here he incorporated key elements of the de Stijl aesthetichorizontal and vertical lines, primary colors, and blackinto a three–dimensional relief construction, a format of particular interest to many artists in the 1920s and 1930s, as a means of exploring the spatial possibilities of painting. After his arrival in New York in 1940, Mondrian joined the American Abstract Artists, a group Diller had co-founded with Ilya Bolotowsky and others in 1936.
Dion's sculptures and installations are based on the methods of categorization and display found in natural history museums and related sites. He filled this cabinet of curiosities with artifacts from an archaeological excavation in this Museum's Sculpture Garden; the drawings take the form of a page from a natural history textbook, and demonstrate Dion's classificatory and methodological systems.
Disney's Steamboat Willie is a landmark in the history of animation. It was the first Mickey Mouse film released and the first cartoon with synchronized sound. It threw silent animation into obsolescence, and launched an empire. Previously, there had been little to distinguish Disney's cartoons from those of his competitors. He was facing bankruptcy when Alan Crosland's The Jazz Singer, with long sequences of song and dialogue, took America by storm in 1927. Sensing that sound movies meant big business, Disney decided to stake all on his talking mouse. The movie opened at the Colony Theater in New York on November 18, 1928, a date that would become known as Mickey's birthday. Audiences were stunned by the vitality of the film's characters. Unhampered by the difficulties of using new equipment with live actors, Disney was able to fuse technology with handcraftsmanship, naturalism with abstraction, an ability that, over time, proved him to be a great artist. So strong was the audience demand for Steamboat Willie that two weeks after its premiere Disney re-released it at the largest theater in the world, the Roxy in New York City. Critics came to see in Mickey Mouse a blend of Charlie Chaplin in his championing of the underdog, Douglas Fairbanks in his rascally adventurous spirit, and Fred Astaire in his grace and freedom from gravity's laws.
Disrupting a wide expanse of pale sand and gentle water, a dark porch beam bisects the still, isolated Cape Cod shore. Dickinson painted this and other landscape compositions outdoors and directly from nature, often completing his paintings in one sitting of three or four hours. His approach, he said, was "to make your decisions pretty fast. . . if the painting was not satisfactory at the end of a sitting, it was wiped out." Working quickly, Dickinson subordinated fine detail to an effect more like an impression of the landscape. The result is a somewhat abstract composition.
Dittborn, a painter, printmaker, and video artist, is perhaps best known for his Airmail series, to which this screenprint belongs. In 8 Survivors, the artist has used an eclectic mix of sources, including newspaper articles, police photographs, children's drawings, and excerpts from ethnographic textbooks. Like the other works in the series, the large sheet of paper is folded, sent by mail, and finally exhibited unfolded and pinned to the wall alongside its envelope. Dittborn began his Airmail series in 1983, when Chile was under military dictatorship, and, initially at least, it was a means of addressing and transcending problems of isolation and censorship. The faces in these works have also been interpreted as reminders of the thousands of political prisoners who "disappeared" during this time. The artist has likened the envelopes to a protective skin or womb, and the process of uncovering the artwork is akin to unfolding a lost or forgotten story.
Donati belonged to the circle of Surrealist artists, led by André Breton, active in New York in the 1940s. World War II had driven many artists from Europe, and New York became the headquarters for a "Surrealism in exile." Donati first traveled to North America in 1934, when he spent several months studying American Indian art in Arizona, New Mexico, and northern Canada. In 1940 he moved to New York, where he became closely associated with Breton, Marcel Duchamp, and others. As Inscription 4026 B.C. demonstrates, Donati frequently incorporated sand into his paintings of the 1960s, creating compositions that resemble in texture and color the fossils and stones that he collected.
DO NOT PUBLISH. SIMILAR TO DESIGNING MODERN WOMEN In 1911 the Ironrite Ironer Company began manufacturing electric ironing machines and marketing them to American housewives as the modern antidote to the drudgery of hand-ironing. In the late 1930s it launched the Health Chair, which facilitated "a scientifically correct ironing posture," to complement its machines. World War II delayed mass production of the chair but stimulated the development of a newly scientific and systematic analysis of the interface between the human body and the designed environment. When production resumed, the benefits of the Health Chair were advocated by Ironrite instructors, who provided free demonstrations at “ironing schools” as well as in private home lessons.
Double Lunar Dogs, based on Robert Heinlein's science-fiction story "Universe," is about passengers who have been aboard a spaceship for so long that they no longer remember their mission. The small team of astronauts moves through the starry sky in a cabin that resembles a mad-scientist's lab. The fragmented story is told by means of special effects and inserted vignettes created by a stellar group of avant-garde actors, video artists, and musicians, including Spalding Gray, the Residents, and Steina Vasulka.Jonas was among the first artists in the 1970s to combine performance and video. Her work, at times, has expanded to encompass dance and sculpture. She has often adapted her intricate and personal performances into narrative videotapes to give them added dimension. In both mediums, she incorporates her signature gestural actions and symbolic props, such as mirrors, masks, and hearts, as a means of exploring subjectivity and identity.
Douglas Gordon came of age with a generation of artists drawn to critiquing and deconstructing media technology. Over the past two decades, he has produced text-based and photographic works as well as video installations, often based on cinematic imagery, that investigate the construction of meaning and the notion of the sublime.For the monumental installation Play Dead; Real Time, Gordon arranged for a circus elephant to be transported to Gagosian Gallery, in New York City, where he filmed it obeying a series of commands (repeatedly lying down and then awkwardly struggling to rise). Like many of Gordon's protagonists, the elephant is subject to greater forces, beyond its controL Simultaneously presenting several different versions of the scene, in front and rear projections and on a monitor, the work depicts the event from a range of perspectives rather than from a single static viewpoint.
Dr. Mayer-Hermann was a renowned throat specialist whose waiting room was filled with the most prominent singers and actresses of his day. Dix was among his patients. While Dix is best known for his unflinching depictions of prostitutes, disabled war veterans, and other traumatized subjects, here he depicts an established professional with wit and satire. The abundance of circular shapes that fill the canvas parodies the doctor's round body and face—from the curves of his chubby hands and the round bags under his eyes to the reflector on his headband and the mirror above his head.
Droog Design first caught the attention of international critics in 1993 with an exhibition at the Milan Furniture Fair in which the design group's founders, Gijs Bakker and Renny Ramakers, displayed the work of a number of Dutch designers who shared the same essentially minimalist approach. Among the first members of the collective were Hella Jongerius, Marcel Wanders, and Remy, designers who were featured in MoMA's 1996 exhibition Contemporary Design from the Netherlands and who have gone on to become contemporary masters.Droog Design's first appearance had the strength of a manifesto. In the hangover after the exuberance and excess of the 1980s, designers all over the world turned to a new value system based on economy, simplicity, and responsibility. Many of their objects celebrated ingenuity and poverty of means and elevated them to an aesthetic philosophy; idealism and moralism were the politically correct attitudes of the day. Remy's 'You Can't Lay Down Your Memory 'Chest of Drawers is made of found drawers held together roughly by a belt. It has the visual impact and provocative intent of a Dada sculpture, minus a Dadaist sense of humor.
Dr. Walther Beyer, Berlin-Neubabelsberg. By 1928Ernst Schneider. Until September 1953Grace Borgenicht Gallery (Heinz Schultz), New YorkThe Museum of Modern Art, New York. Purchased from Heinz Schultz with Matthew T. Mellon Foundation Fund, 1954
Dufy depicted Bastille Day in a dozen paintings. Here he captured a celebration of the French holiday in Le Havre, Normandy, his native coastal city. As is typical of Dufy's style, in this painting he rendered the building facades and figures strolling up the street in a loose, simplified manner. The subdued tones of the buildings and figures contrast with the vibrant hues of the tricolored French flags. Prominently displayed and carefully choreographed, they are the protagonists in the composition, relegating all other elements to a secondary position.
During his first concentrated study of lithography, Winters completed a series of three works based on the morula, the spherical mass of cells that forms from a newly fertilized egg. He drew the embryonic masses in layers of velvety blacks that create a remarkably lush and painterly surface. Atmospheric smears of ink create an indeterminate space and suggest an environment of suspension for the organic orbs.
During his tenure at the Bauhaus, Klee explored distinctive ways of image–making, including transfer drawings. This work was executed by tracing the lines of a pencil drawing through a black-inked surface onto another clean sheet of paper. The clean sheet received the outline of the drawing in black as well as additional smudges of excess pigment, to which Klee then directly added motifs in watercolor and ink. The arching and angled arrows, before which whimsical figures appear to dance, indicate motion and spatial depth. The reference to music, a mainstay in Klee's life and in his Bauhaus activities, is underscored by the word "scherzo," referring to a vigorous and playful composition, in the work's title.
During the 1950s Soto established the theoretical and physical foundations of his oeuvre.  His body of work is made up of objects that create optical vibrations through the movement of the spectator, which continuously modifies the perception of the work. In 1959 Soto began producing a series of works generically titled Vibraciones (Vibrations), in which he applied discarded materials and painted metal wires to irregular pictorial surfaces traced with parallel lines. Soto intended these so–called baroque works to engage with Informalism—a style that placed emphasis on formless texture and tactile touch—and New Realism—a movement that favored materials taken from everyday urban life. By producing opitcal vibrations against these textured supports, Soto created the illusion of their dematerialization.
During the 1980s the field of computer architecture was revolutionized by the invention of Reduced Instruction Set Computers (RISC). Prior to this, machines were capable of performing hundreds of different basic operations, but most of these operations were rarely used and introduced complications that limited a computer's speed. By reducing the number of different instructions, engineers ensured that each operation would be executed quickly, and although more instructions were needed to perform any given task, net execution time declined. Because instructions were very simple, it became easier to pipeline them—to execute several instructions simultaneously. Moreover, the entire processor could be integrated into a single chip. The result was a dramatic increase in speed and a reduction in cost.Consisting of 172,000 transistors, the C Reduced Instruction Set Processor (CRISP) from AT&T Bell Laboratories exemplifies the handful of RISC processors that revolutionized the architecture of computer processors. In fact, the CRISP model remains the most popular blueprint for the structure of new processors. This photo-enlargement is the diagram by which engineers check that new chips are correctly manufactured. The chip itself is the smallest object in MoMA's collection, five hundred times smaller than the accompanying diagram.
During the first decades of the twentieth century, Stieglitz was central in promoting modern art in the United States, not only as a gallerist and publisher but also as an artist—a photographer—in his own right. He often made portraits of the artists who gathered around him as friends and colleagues. Here Stieglitz photographed the painter Charles Demuth, making his face, gaunt from illness, a surface for the play of light and shadow. Demuth greatly admired the portrait, writing to Stieglitz, "I think the head is one of the most beautiful things that I have ever known in the world or art."
During the political Thaw after 1956, Polish Communist authorities turned their attention from heavy industry to the promotion of consumer goods as a means of earning hard currency from the West. Cieslewicz pays homage here to the surreal fashions popularized by Italian designer Elsa Schiaparelli.  In 1963 Cieslewicz moved to Paris and became immersed in avant-garde art and fashion, winning international acclaim for his innovative art direction of Elle and Vogue magazines.
Each of Sherman's sixty-nine Untitled Film Stills (1977–80), presents a female heroine from a movie we feel we must have seen. Here, she is the pert young career girl in a trim new suit on her first day in the big city. Among the others are the luscious librarian (#13), the chic starlet at her seaside hideaway (#7), the ingenue setting out on life's journey (#48), and the tough but vulnerable film noir idol (#54). To make the pictures, Sherman herself played all of the roles or, more precisely, played all of the actresses playing all of the roles. In other words, the series is a fiction about a fiction, a deft encapsulation of the image of feminity that, through the movies, took hold of the collective imagination in postwar America—the period of Sherman's youth, and the crucible of our contemporary culture.In fact, only a handful of the Untitled Film Stills are modeled directly on particular roles in actual movies, let alone on individual stills of the sort that the studios distribute to publicize their films. All the others are inventive allusions to generic types, and so our sure sense of recognition is all the more telling. It tells us that, knowingly or not, we have absorbed the movie culture that Sherman invites us to examine as a powerful force in our lives.
Early visitors to Picasso's studio were bewildered by this work: "What is that?" they asked, according to the poet André Salmon: "Does that rest on a pedestal? Does that hang on the wall? Is it a painting or sculpture?" Apparently, Picasso responded, "It's nothing, it's 'la guitare!'" For Salmon, one of Picasso's closest friends during the Cubist years, the effect was of radical importance: "We were delivered from painting and sculpture, liberated from the imbecilic tyranny of genres." With its center open to space, Picasso's Guitar was a radical breakthrough.
Edmunds, a sculptor known for his labor-intensive, methodical approach to found objects, also experiments with the systematic processes of printmaking. Here a single uninterrupted line is a pulsating, hypnotic meditation on the process of incising a linoleum block. The print was commissioned by Johannesburg-based artist and curator Clive van den Berg, who organized a series of annual exhibitions, titled Self (2000–2002), that explored oversize linocut printing by artists who had rarely or never used the technique before.
Eisenman conceived this project shortly after the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1991. Its site—just north of the intersection of two of Berlin's most prominent and historically rich thoroughfares, the Unter den Linden and the Friedrichstrasse—had been previously occupied by the fantastic Expressionist playhouse of Max Reinhardt, a prominent theater producer in Germany in the early decades of the twentieth century.In order to capture Reinhardt's legendary energy and vision, Eisenman devised a prismatic form that is a world unto itself but also reflects the constantly changing and multifaceted character of the city. In Eisenman's design (which was never built), the thirty-four-story building vertically folds on its core to create a structure that separates, transforms, and rejoins itself horizontally at the roof level.The form was generated by three operations performed on a Möbius strip, a three-dimensional geometric form with a single continuous surface. In the first operation, planes were generated from the triangulation of surfaces, which permitted the development of a surface order for exterior cladding and a trussed structure for vertical and lateral support. The second operation inverted the strip, triangulated the surfaces again, and imprinted the outlines of these surfaces on the initial form. The third step folded large public spaces between the grid and floor plates of an already folded structure. The building, whose height and creased form create an imposing presence, reflects a continually shifting urban paradigm.
Eisenstein used the events of the 1905 rebellion against czarist troops in the port of Odessa to give meaning to the Russian Revolution of 1917. Potemkin is made up of five major sequences: the rebellion of the ship's sailors over rotten food, the mutiny on the quarterdeck, the display of the martyr's body on the quay, the massacre of civilians on the Odessa steps, and the triumphant sailing of the battleship to meet the fleet. All of them exhibit Eisenstein's self-conscious manipulation of the medium of film. One of the most memorable shots, comprising the Odessa steps sequence, for example, captures the horror of the massacre in a close-up of a woman screaming after she has been wounded by the advancing soldiers. His brilliantly percussive editing, detailed shots, repetitions, contrasts, compressions and expansions of time, and collisions of images ran counter to the trend toward a seamless illusion of reality found in other national cinemas of the 1920s. With this film, Soviet cinema took a central place on the world scene, in spite of the fact that the film was censored, even banned, in many countries for its powerful glorification of the Soviet ideal. After the Revolution, young film directors searched for a cinematic style that, by destroying tradition, would help to bring about a new society. In films on revolutionary subjects, they abandoned conventional structure, experimented with new techniques, and used montage. Eisenstein, in particular, believed that juxtapositions of images would shock viewers into becoming active cinematic agents.
Ekuan, a pillar in the history of modern Japanese design, passed away in February 2015. To celebrate his legacy, no object is more appropriate—and more attuned to the theme of this exhibition—than the ubiquitous soy sauce bottle he designed for Kikkoman. Post-World War II Japan found itself in an identity crisis; its citizens had to hold on tight to their history, culture, and cuisine despite the desolate feelings and the practical effects brought by a devastating and momentous defeat. Soy sauce, a staple of the Japanese diet for hundreds of years, found itself at the forefront of this historical challenge, but the brand needed a boost of modernity. Soy sauce was originally sold in 1.8 liter bottles, both unwieldy and unsightly, and the design of a new bottle rested on fixing those two problems. Ekuan, a former Buddhist monk working at GK Design Group in Japan, set out to redesign the soy sauce dispenser for the company Kikkoman. The bottle had to fit in with the minimalist Japanese aesthetic and be comfortable to hold— goals he achieved by designing a wide-bottomed bottle that tapers at the neck and ever so slightly funnels out at the very top. The see-through glass, functional in that it allows the consumer to see how much soy sauce is left and beautiful in its simplicity, contrasts with a bright red cap that adds visual depth to the dark sauce. The spout posed the greatest dilemma, as soy sauce has about as much viscosity as wine: none at all. Ekuan developed close to one hundred models, none of which succeeded in both preventing drip and controlling flow. An inward angle on the tip of the spout proved the right solution, preventing the sauce from pooling in the spout and dripping onto the table. More than three hundred million of these bottles have been sold worldwide.
El Anatsui creates sculptures that allude to contemporary consumer habits and to the history of colonialism in his home nation and in his current country of residence, Nigeria. This shimmering sheet is composed of liquor-bottle caps and seals discarded by Nigerian distilleries. Anatsui and his assistants have flattened, folded, and carefully linked the pieces together with copper wire, creating a simple repetition of forms on a grand scale. For Anatsui, bottle caps represent “the material which was there at the beginning of the contact between two continents.” In the complex networks of exchange established between Africa and Europe as early as the fifteenth century, Europeans used alcohol to barter for African goods, and alcohol eventually became a key commodity in the transatlantic slave trade.Like all of Anatsuis malleable hanging sculptures, Bleeding Takari II looks slightly different each time it is installed. The title is evocative yet purposefully mysterious: “Takari” is a fictional name created by the artist, with no specific referent.
Elegant, controlled, and austere, this poster marks the ultimate expression of principles Tschichold had refined over a decade: "I attempt to reach the maximum of purpose in my publicity works and to connect the single constructive elements harmoniously—to design," he wrote. The poster's subtle composition draws on the characteristics of the Constructivist art exhibition it advertises. By 1937 Tschichold had fled Nazi Germany, where such art was characterized as degenerate, and was living in Switzerland. This poster was one of several he designed for the museum in the absence of commissions from commercial clients.
Elegy to the Spanish Republic, 108 describes a stately passage of the organic and the geometric, the accidental and the deliberate. Like other Abstract Expressionists, Motherwell was attracted to the Surrealist principle of automatism—of methods that escaped the artist's conscious intention—and his brushwork has an emotional charge, but within an overall structure of a certain severity. In fact Motherwell saw careful arrangements of color and form as the heart of abstract art, which, he said, "is stripped bare of other things in order to intensify it, its rhythms, spatial intervals, and color structure."Motherwell intended his Elegies to the Spanish Republic (over 100 paintings, completed between 1948 and 1967) as a "lamentation or funeral song" after the Spanish Civil War. His recurring motif here is a rough black oval, repeated in varying sizes and degrees of compression and distortion. Instead of appearing as holes leading into a deeper space, these light-absorbent blots stand out against a ground of relatively even, predominantly white upright rectangles. They have various associations, but Motherwell himself related them to the display of the dead bull's testicles in the Spanish bullfighting ring. Motherwell described the Elegies as his "private insistence that a terrible death happened that should not be forgot. But," he added, "the pictures are also general metaphors of the contrast between life and death, and their interrelation."Elegy to the Spanish
Elizabeth Catlett has said that the purpose of her art is to "present black people in their beauty and dignity for ourselves and others to understand and enjoy." As a sculptor and printmaker, she blends figurative and abstract traditions with social concerns, and has maintained a deep belief in the democratic power of printed art to reach a large audience. She has completed some eighty prints in woodcut, screenprint, lithography, and, most importantly, linoleum cut, a technique she learned at El Taller de Gráfica Popular (People's Graphic Workshop). This renowned workshop and artists' collective was first visited by Catlett while she was in Mexico City on a fellowship in 1946. The workshop's aim is to continue the Mexican tradition of socially engaged public art. It specializes in linoleum cut, as it is a technique that is easy to work with, produces inexpensive prints, and can accommodate large editions. Catlett's attraction to Mexican printmaking reflects a social and political concern she shares with the great muralists. Like them she uses her art to advance causes of particular interest to her, including the African-American experience and the plight of the lower classes. Many of her prints show the multidimensional aspects of women as mothers, workers, and activists. Sharecropper evokes Catlett's belief in the strength and dignity of the working poor, while it also offers a heroic portrait of this anonymous woman. She also depicts great women from African-American history, including Harriet Tubman, who is shown leading slaves to freedom as a "conductor" on the Underground Railroad. Catlett's continued support of the civil rights movement in the United States during the 1960s is visible in the print completed after Malcolm X was shot and killed. It expresses Catlett's enthusiasm for the leader's successful efforts in inspiring pride in African-American women.
Elizabeth Peyton draws and paints people who inspire her, including contemporary celebrities who died young, like Elvis and punk rock star Sid Vicious, and famous historical figures like Napoleon and Louis XIV. Working from images culled from the mass media and from her own photographs and videos of people she knows, she conveys slightly world-weary emotional content with an expressive visual language of drips, streaks, and broad, painterly brushstrokes rendered in colors so loaded as to suggest a cross between late-nineteenth-century Symbolism and late-1990s fashion advertising. Using translucent oil paints or watercolors, she imbues her waifish subjects with light that seems to radiate from within. Peyton has been making prints since 1998, when Parkett magazine commissioned her to create a lithograph. That print, a portrait of writer and aesthete Oscar Wilde and his companion Lord Alfred Douglas, nicknamed Bosie, is related to the lithograph shown here. Deriving this image from the 1998 movie Wilde, Peyton rejects the cliché of Bosie as a selfish, childish paramour who corrupted his older, more accomplished partner, leading to the latter's downfall. Peyton, like Wilde, interested in beauty, renders Bosie sympathetically in pink and lavender colors symbolic of his elegant androgyny. Her painting style translates easily into the lithographic medium, as she can achieve watery-looking washes and tactile effects with tusche, an oily ink used in this technique. Peyton's other activities in printmaking include a series of lithographs commissioned jointly by the Public Art Fund and a real-estate developer for display in two Manhattan hotels. She has also turned to etching, depicting mostly her circle of friends in delicate linear studies. Most recently she has embarked on a monotype project and made her first woodcut and an aquatint at Two Palms Press, bringing her sitters right into the printshop.
Emigre, the alternative-culture graphic-design magazine launched by Rudy VanderLans and Zuzana Licko in 1984, set the standard for digital typography and design. With the introduction of the Macintosh computer, Licko recognized a tool for constructing typefaces digitally. She and VanderLans founded Emigre Fonts, the first digital type foundry, which introduced early dot-matrix fonts and, as technology improved, issued high-resolution typefaces. Emigre magazine was the testing ground for their digital experimentation, and it was the medium through which they spread their enthusiasm for the new technology. It also provided a forum for a growing community of digital designers.In sixty–nine issues of Emigre, produced between 1984 and 2005, VanderLans and Licko established graphic design at the forefront of contemporary art practice by taking full advantage of one of the most important innovations of the twentieth century. Their pioneering efforts made strengths out of the aesthetic and technological weaknesses of the fledgling personal computer.
Emilio Ambasz's design for the Grand Rapids Art Museum proposed to transform an existing 1908 Beaux-Arts post office into the museum's new headquarters. The intention was to revitalize the Grand Rapids downtown area by using this vacant federal building in conjunction with additional underused or abandoned structures. Ambasz left the existing structure intact; his only intervention was to move the entrance to the open courtyard, thereby creating a single entry for the museum and reintegrating the building with a nearby college and commercial downtown area. The entrance to the grand foyer is created by means of an inclined plane flanked by two stairways, which creates a ceremonial entrance as well as a covered courtyard. Similar inclined entrances were to be used in the additional structures. Although it had been commissioned by the museum, the design was never realized owing to financial difficulties.
Emma with the Long Neck, the second monotype depicting the sitter Emma Laforge to enter the collection, was originally a gift from the artist to the American art historian Walter Pach, an important early advocate of Matisse's work. Pach first met Matisse around 1907, in Paris. Over the next several years he became a key connection between the artist and New York City, organizing some of Matisse's first gallery exhibitions here and helping to develop his growing American collector base.
Encompassing sculpture, performance, film, and assemblage, Latham's fifty–year career focused on notions of time and event, systems of knowledge, and processes of language. In the early 1960s, books emerged as a primary motif in his work. Burning, cutting, stacking, painting, and plastering them into relief paintings and sculptures, he emphasized their material substance and visual structure. For the performance Skoob Tower Ceremony: National Encyclopedias (1966), Latham stacked volumes of the Encyclopedia Britannica, then burned them, allowing viewers to observe the destruction of knowledge gathered over centuries. In this 1971 film, using one frame of film for each page of the thirtytwo-volume set, Latham transforms what is often considered the embodiment of human knowledge into an accelerating stream of images.
Enlarged photographs of seven young girls are propped atop a stack of unlabeled tin biscuit boxes containing scraps of fabric. These boxes are corroded as if marked by time and are infused with symbolic associations—they evoke reliquary boxes, archival containers, and funerary urns. The black-and-white photographs connote another era; out of focus, they constitute a visual analogy to memory, fading over time. Electric lights illuminate the seven faces like devotional candles, underscoring the effect of a memorial, an orchestration of signifiers indicating loss and remembrance. Old photographs, the tension between individuality and sameness, and the implication of vast numbers evoke the tragedy of the Holocaust.However, the girls pictured are not victims of genocide: the photographs, of anonymous children, were culled from magazines and newspapers. The boxes are not truly old, and the cloth contained in them is generic and has no special origin. Boltanski creates an atmosphere of general, unspecified mourning through means—photographs, relics—traditionally valued for their privileged claim to specificity, uniqueness, and authenticity. A vocabulary of documentary signs is used movingly, but deceptively, for symbolic effect.
Ernestine Seurat (the artist's mother), Paris, 1891 [1]; by inheritance to Léon Appert (the artist's brother in law), Paris, 1899 [2]; by inheritance to his son Maurice Appert, Paris, 1925 [3]; to Etienne Bignou, Paris [4]; to Alexandre Reid & Lefevre, Ltd., London, 1926 [5]; owned jointly by Reid & Lefevre, Ltd./Knoedler & Co., New York, December 1926 [6]; sold by Knoedler & Co., New York to Lillie P. Bliss, New York, 1927 [7]; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1934 (The Lillie P. Bliss Collection).[1] C. M. de Hauke, Seurat et son oeuvre, Paris: Gründ, 1961, no. 192. See Salon des Indépendants, Paris, 1892 (no. 1100): "Port-en-Bessin, L'avant-port, marée haute [title erroneous]; prêté par Mme Seurat;" and Les XX, Brussels, 1892 (no. 12): "Port-en-Bessin; L'avant-port, marée haute [title erroneous], appartient à Mme Seurat."[2] C. M. de Hauke, Seurat et son oeuvre, Paris: Gründ, 1961, no. 192. Henri Dorra and John Rewald, eds. Seurat, Paris: Les Beaux Arts, 1959, no. 186: "Appert, Paris."  [3] The Lillie P. Bliss Collection, The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1934 (no. 56). Not in de Hauke 1961.[4] C. M. de Hauke, Seurat et son oeuvre, Paris: Gründ, 1961, no. 192.[5] Ibid. See Robert L. Herbert et al., Georges Seurat: 1859-1891, exh. cat. New York: The Metropolitan Museum of Art, 1991, p. 322, no. 207. Included in the exhibition Pictures and Drawings by Georges Seurat, Lefevre Galleries, London, April-May 1926 (no. 5).[6] See Robert L. Herbert et al., Georges Seurat: 1859-1891, exh. cat. New York: The Metropolitan Museum of Art, 1991, p. 322, no. 207. Knoedler stock no. 16654. Included in the exhibition French Art of the Last Fifty Years, Knoedler & Co., New York, January 17-January 29, 1927 (no. 17).[7] Ibid.[1] C. M. de Hauke, Seurat et son oeuvre, Paris: Gründ, 1961, no. 192. See Salon des Indépendants, Paris, 1892 (no. 1100): "Port-en-Bessin, L'avant-port, marée haute [title erroneous]; prêté par Mme Seurat;" and Les XX, Brussels, 1892 (no. 12): "Port-en-Bessin; L'avant-port, marée haute [title erroneous], appartient à Mme Seurat."[2] The Lillie P. Bliss Collection, The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1934 (no. 56). Henri Dorra and John Rewald, eds. Seurat, Paris: Les Beaux Arts, 1959, no. 186: "Appert, Paris." Not in de Hauke 1961. [3] C. M. de Hauke, Seurat et son oeuvre, Paris: Gründ, 1961, no. 192.[4] Ibid. Dorra and Rewald 1959.[5] Ibid. Dorra and Rewald 1959. Included in the exhibition Pictures and Drawings by Georges Seurat, Lefevre Galleries, London, April-May 1926 (no. 5).[6] Ibid. Dorra and Rewald 1959. Included in the exhibition French Art of the Last Fifty Years, Knoedler & Co., New York, January 17-January 29, 1927 (no. 17).
Ernst Ludwig Kirchner Estate (Erna Schilling), Davos-Frauenkirch, June 15, 1938; to Kunstsammlung Basel, 1946-1947; sold through Gutekunst & Klipstein, Bern, December 3, 1949 (lot 138); to William S. Lieberman,  New York, c. 1949-1950; to The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1951
Ernst Ludwig Kirchner Estate (Erna Schilling), Davos-Frauenkirch, June 15, 1938; to Kunstsammlung Basel, 1946-1947; sold through Gutekunst & Klipstein, December 3, 1949 (lot 136); to William S. Lieberman, New York, 1949; to The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1951
[Ernst Schwitters, Lysaker / Schwitters estate?][Galerie Heinz Berggruen, Paris?]Klipstein & Kornfeld, Bern. By 1959Mr. and Mrs. Sidney Janis, New York. Acquired from Klipstein Kornfeld, 1959 - 1967The Museum of Modern Art, New York. The Sidney and Harriet Janis Collection, 1967
Ernst was aligned with both the Dada and the Surrealist movements. Une Semaine de Bonté is one of his visual "collage novels": associative sequences of images made by combining illustrations from nineteenth– and early–twentieth–century pulp novels, scientific journals, mail–order catalogues, and  natural–history magazines.
Ernst was fascinated with microscopic images, which were first broadly distributed in the early twentieth century. Here, he created an overpainting on the ambitious scale of traditional oil painting by using a commercially available teaching chart. Ernst inverted the underlying diagram probably illustrating mitosis in the cells of a gramineous (grassy plant) specimen, and painted in a black ground. He combined these animated organic forms with what appear to be machine parts, while the inscription "The gramineous bicycle garnished with bells the dappled fire damps and the echinoderms bending the spine to look for caresses" lends amusing sexual connotations to the hairs, orifices, and protrusions of these microorganisms.
Erwin Petermann (1904-1989), Stuttgart; Willy Hahn (1896-1988), Stuttgart; Kunsthandel Rainer Horstmann, Hamburg; Allan Frumkin Gallery, New York; Private collection, Chicago; Galerie Thomas Borgmann, Cologne; Galerie Stefan Lennert, Munich, 1978; Serge Sabarsky (1912-1996), New York, 1980 [1]; acquired by the Museum of Modern Art, New York (Gift of Jo Carole and Ronald S. Lauder), 1986.[1] Above sequence of ownership provided by the Nachlass Erich Heckel, Hemmenhofen, Germany.
Essay with Knots consists of nine panels of vacuum-formed plastic, across which is printed an essay entitled "Dispersion," which Price began writing in 2002. The essay explores the profound changes in the creation and experience of art that have accompanied the growth of digital technology, and the ways in which artists are addressing these new possibilities for the production and diffusion of information. Price has circulated the piece in various forms, including the sculptural work on view here, in which the artist's Adobe InDesign files are printed on plastic and formed around knotted ropes using industrial packaging technology; a printed book available in stores; and a free PDF of the book available online. By positioning the work within different economic spheres—the art world, the retail market, and the free economyof the Internet—Price creates multiple possibilities of presentation that are all equally "the work.""Dispersion" is available at http://www.distributedhistory.com/Dispersion08.pdf.
Estate of Alwin Woldemar von Dietel, Frankfurt; sold through Galerie F.A.C. Prestel, Frankfurt to the Städtische Kunsthalle, Mannheim, October 16/17, 1928 [1]; removed as “degenerate art” by the Reich Ministry for Public Enlightenment and Propaganda, 1937 [2]; on consignment to Karl Buchholz, Berlin; to Buchholz Gallery (Curt Valentin), New York; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1941.[1] See auct. cat. Meisterwerke moderner Graphik: Sammlung des verstorbenen Herrn Landrat a.D. Dr. A.W. von Dietel und ein Beitrag aus anderem Besitz, F.A.C. Prestel, Frankfurt, lot no. 1047. Collection stamp "[MANN]HEIM KUNSTHALLE"  on verso. Inv. no. 2472. See Hans-Jürgen Buderer, ed., Entartete Kunst - Beschlagnahmeaktionen in der Städtischen Kunsthalle Mannheim, 1937, exh. cat. Mannheim: Kunsthalle, 1987.[2] EK no. 6460: Komposition
Estate of the artist, 1914 [1]; to Galerie von der Heyde, Berlin, by 1934 [2]; sold to Herbert Kurz (1892-1967), Meerane, Germany, 1934 [3]. Acquired by Karl Buchholz, Berlin [4]; on consignment to Curt Valentin (Buchholz Gallery), New York, August 16, 1938 [5]; seized by the Alien Property Custodian, May, 1944; sold through Curt Valentin, New York (auction of property vested by Alien Property Custodian) [6] to Henry Pearlman (1895-1974), New York, 1944 [7]; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1956 (Gift of the Henry Pearlman Foundation).).[1] First shown at the exhibition August Macke Gedächtnisausstellung, Kunstverein Frankfurt, May 19-June 13, 1920, no. 68 (Frau mit Sonnenschirm).[2] Included in the exhibition August Macke: Zur 20. Wiederkehr seines Todestages, Galerie von der Heyde, Berlin, September 23 to October 18, 1934, no. 31 (Frau im Park).[3] Gustav Vriesen, August Macke, Stuttgart: Kohlhammer Verlag, 1953, no. 483 (Frau mit Sonnenschirm und karierten Handschuhen). First sold through Galerie von der Heyde, Berlin according to object information provided by Dr. Wolfgang Macke, Bonn, September 8, 1957, Collection files, Department of Painting and Sculpture, The Museum of Modern Art, New York.[4] Inventory no. 1117 (August Macke, Lady in the Park). "Objects of art owned by Karl Buchholz," Vesting order no. 3711, NARA, Washington, DC.[5] Ibid.[6] Lot no. 45. Collection files, Department of Painting and Sculpture, The Museum of Modern Art, New York.[7] Date of sale: December 8, 1944 ("Public Invitation for Bids," Alien Property Custodian, Henry and Rose Pearlman Papers, Box 3, Various Correspondence, A-C, Archives of American Art). See letter Henry Pearlman to Alfred H. Barr, Jr., March 21, 1945, Collectors Records, 61. The Museum of Modern Art Archives, New York. This information was kindly provided to us by Allison L. Unruh. See also Gustav Vriesen, August Macke, Stuttgart: Kohlhammer Verlag, 1953, no. 483: "Henry Perlman [sic], New York." Included in the exhibition Der Blaue Reiter, Curt Valentin Gallery, New York, December 7, 1954-January 8, 1955, no. 40 (Lady in a Park). On extended loan from Pearlman to the Museum of Modern Art from March 1955.
Estate of the artist (Olga Mohler Picabia) [1905-2002], Paris, 1953 [1]; sold to Private Collection, c. 1997 [2]; acquired by Galerie Michael Werner, Cologne and New York, 2000 [3]; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 2000 (Purchase).[1] Comité Picabia no. 2281. Collection files, Department of Painting and Sculpture, The Museum of Modern Art, Mew York.[2] Ibid.
Even when depicting an industrial artifact—here, an overhead gantry above the railroad tracks near the artist's childhood home in Ohio—Burchfield emphasized the presence of nature, his most enduring subject throughout his career. The gray expanse of sky, and the snow-covered ground around the town and train station, invoke a mood of winter bleakness. The wide expanse of tracks suggests train traffic, of which, however, there is none. In 1929, this watercolor was included in MoMA's first exhibition of work by American artists, Paintings by 19 Living Americans, and shortly thereafter it was presented to the Museum as a gift. In 1930, Burchfield was the subject of one of the Museum's first one–person exhibitions.
Ever Is Over All envelops viewers in two slow-motion projections on adjacent walls. In one a roving camera focuses on red flowers in a field of lush vegetation. The spellbinding lull this imagery creates harmonizes with the projection to its left, which features a woman in sparkling ruby slippers promenading down a car-lined street. The fluidity of both scenes is disrupted when the woman violently smashes a row of car windshields with the long-stemmed flower she carries. As the vandal gains momentum with each gleeful strike of her wand, an approaching police officer smiles in approval, introducing comic tension into this whimsical and anarchistic scene.
"Ever since I remember, drawing has been my language. It best expresses my thoughts," Starowieyski said. He studied painting and graphics at the Fine Art Academies in Krakow and Warsaw between 1949 and 1955, and like Henryk Tomaszewski he often experimented with painting and drawing techniques to convey the atmosphere of a film or a play—in this case, humorous, playful, and surreal.
"Everything I loved had the shape of people around me—the shape of my husband, the shape of the children," Bourgeois has said. "So when I wanted to represent something I love, I obviously represented a little penis." The title of the work, however, lends it ambiguity. In the 1960s Bourgeois began constructing hanging sculptures and using a variety of materials—here plaster and latex—to create organic, fleshy sculptures that recall the human body.
Everything in this photograph is utterly artificial, beginning with the painted backdrop. Its mottled forms create an impression of light, which complicates the shaft of genuine light that Groover has introduced from above on the right side of the composition. These effects enliven the somber beauty of the picture and participate in a visual balancing act that also includes the table and all the objects on and around it, which the artist has painted before arranging them. The imprudent red at the lower left adds to the impression of a voluptuous whole.Since 1978, the still-life genre has been the focus of Groover's photography, the arena in which she has tested her conviction that "formalism is everything." That declaration may be understood to mean that the artist's pictorial decisions-what color meets with what color, how shapes are seen in relationship to each other and to the space they occupy, the scale of forms within the picture-are enough to create a world of meaning. Pursuing this conviction in the closed environment of the studio, Groover has, in fact, created a seemingly infinite variety of visual experience, as rich and surprising as life outside.
Every twenty minutes, someone somewhere is killed or mutilated by a land mine. No one knows exactly how many mines lie in the soil of countries such as Angola, Somalia, Afghanistan, Mozambique, Cambodia, Bosnia, Croatia, and Kosovo; estimates range from sixty to a hundred million.MIMID's lightweight and collapsible design makes it suitable for metal-mine detection in remote areas with limited logistical support. The six–pound battery-powered unit can be carried on a waist belt or in a pocket and can be set up in less than thirty seconds. Operator training requires only a few minutes, which makes it a valuable asset—a first-aid kit of sorts—for humanitarian organizations.
Executed by others according to the artist's instructions, LeWitt's works embody his guiding principle that "once the idea of the piece is established in the artist's mind and the final form is decided, the process is carried out blindly." In keeping with this doctrine, LeWitt described the realization of his works as "potentially performative," likening this process to that of a "composer that writes notes and then a pianist plays the notes. Within that situation there is ample room for both to make a statement of their own."Starting with basic shapes and simple marks, these works are built up until the result "renders form without space," creating a sense of depth while maintaining the physical integrity of the wall. The resulting works reflect the duration of their own making, a slow and deliberate process. LeWitt's instructions for Wall Drawing #1187—made late in his career—call for layers of graphite scribbles that build six densities of gray bands, which take on a temporal, undulating quality.
Fahlström was a poet and painter and expressed political concerns using fragments of poetry, newspapers, comic books, and magazines. He studied the history of Surrealism extensively, and the writings of Stéphane Mallarmé, Antonin Artaud, and Henri Micheaux were influential sources for his work. Like Mallarmé, Fahlström arranged words in space, transforming them into rhythmic figures; like Artaud and Micheaux he practiced drawing with words as a form of exorcism. Sketch for World Map uses these Surrealist strategies to obsessively map the world. Its multiple sources are not assimilated literally but are assembled, according to artist Mike Kelley, in "a loose cartooning" way. This personal combination of the language of comics with pictorial means has been an important source of inspiration for contemporary artists, including Kelley, whose work is also on view in this exhibition.
Fast and furiously funny, His Girl Friday blends two formulas popular in Hollywood movies of the late 1930s: biting political satire and romantic screwball comedy. In the film, Walter Burns, the managing editor of a city newspaper, ruthlessly scoops the competition by hiding a death row fugitive with his top reporter and writer, Hildy Johnson—who also happens to be his ex–wife. Although Walter and Hildy clash professionally and romantically, it is a given that he and the paper cannot get along without her. Adding to the fun are Johnson's fiancé, whose courting is sweetly inept, and a messenger from the state governor, whose rejection of a bribe from the city's mayor is the film's wickedest moment of truth. In His Girl Friday nothing is allowed to interfere with the dizzying pace set by the actors, who compete to interrupt each other. The talk crackles with wit; the overlapping dialogue of seasoned journalists and mayoral henchmen is smart, real, and mean. It is Hawksian comedy at its best—a battle of the sexes with the roles reversed to allow for plenty of humiliation and triumph on both sides.
Feeding the Baby is one of the films that mark the official birth of cinema as a theater-going experience, on December 28, 1895. On that date, Lumière and his brother Auguste projected a program of short films to a paying audience at the Grand Café on the Boulevard des Capucines in Paris. Filmed by Louis and less than a minute long, it shows Auguste and his wife having a meal with their child. While this is presented as a documentary, the film shows a domestic scene arranged for the camera; as such, it falls somewhere between the Lumières' usual strict recordings of actual events and their staged comedies. The Lumière brothers were already well-established photographers and manufacturers of photographic equipment when, in 1894, they witnessed a demonstration of Thomas Edison's Kinetoscope in Paris. The American invention was a peepshow device, accommodating only one viewer at a time. The Lumières quickly set out to create a combination camera and projector. Their new, simplified, and portable apparatus, which they called the Cinématographe, was the leap of technical imagination needed for a cinematic culture to emerge from Edison's novelty.
Feeling stifled by the primacy of European art and the regionalism, social realism, and pure abstraction that dominated the New York scene, beginning in 1941 Gottlieb pioneered a new artistic model in works that came to be known as pictographs, including those on view here. Often featuring boxlike structures or grids, his paintings, drawings, and etchings offer a synthesis of material as diverse as classical mythology, modern psychoanalytic theory, Oceanic, Melanesian, Native American, and African visual cultures, and contemporary art and literature.
Felix Fénéon was an art dealer, collector, curator, political activist, critic, and friend of Signac who shared the artist's interests in science and  Japanese prints. In this painting Signac depicts  this unconventional and enigmatic personality  with his characteristic goatee, holding a top hat and a walking stick in one hand and a flower in the other. Combining figuration and abstraction, he sets Fénéon's static profile against a swirling background—a kaleidoscopic depiction of optical theorist Charles Henry's recently published color wheel. A similar playfulness underlies the exceedingly long title, possibly a spoof on scientific terminology.
Fernand Léger drew on Cubism to formulate his own unique approach to depicting the marvels of modern industrial life. Between 1918 and 1955 he made some two hundred printed images, the majority of which appeared as illustrations in books and journals. He often employed photomechanical processes, which allowed his works to be printed in large editions in widely distributed ephemeral formats such as journal covers and theater programs. Léger rose to prominence as a painter when Daniel-Henry Kahnweiler, a celebrated Parisian dealer and publisher, exhibited his work in 1910. After World War I, he became increasingly interested in non-traditional mediums, making murals, designing tapestries, costumes, and theater and film sets, and eventually completing a film in 1924. He turned to book illustration and graphic design in this spirit, completing his first book project in 1918. Originally conceived as a screenplay by Blaise Cendrars, La Fin du monde was instead published as a novel when funding for the movie fell through. The story is a satire in which God, in the guise of a cigar-smoking American businessman, promotes an apocalyptic war on earth as entertainment for the god Mars. In the book format, Léger's illustrations become integral to conveying the filmic progression of the text. Amid his illustrations, Léger includes fragments of Cendrars's text as boldly colored stenciled and block letters, inspired by his love of street signs and silent-movie titles. His dynamic, fractured compositions create a simulation of the moving images of film as the pages of the book are turned.
Feruccio Busoni and his wife, Berlin. Purchased in London (Sackville Gallery) in March 1912 - 1951Rafaello Busoni (their son), New York. c. 1950-51The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Purchased from Rafaello Busoni, 1951
FF DIN is based on a group of typefaces known as Deutsches Industrie-Norm (DIN) Schriften (German industrial standard fonts), considered the official typefaces of Germany. Sometimes called Autobahn (expressway) typefaces because they are used for all German traffic signage, they are themselves based on the typefaces used by the Royal Prussian Railways early in the twentieth century. In the early 1990s German designer Erik Spiekermann noticed that the few available versions of DIN Schriften had become popular with graphic designers because of their "lean, geometric lines," and he suggested to Pool that he consider reviving and redesigning them with a complete set of weights, italics, widths, sizes, and characters. Pool obliged, and the typeface was released in 1995 by FontShop under its in-house FontFont label—hence the FF in its name.
Filmed simultaneously in both standard 35mm and Grandeur, an early wide-screen process, and with versions shot in German, Italian, French, and Spanish for foreign markets (in standard 35mm only and with alternate casts), this 1930 sound feature by veteran silent director Raoul Walsh is an impressive epic of the Oregon Trail. Although hampered by difficult locations and the new and unwieldy Grandeur apparatus, cinematographer Arthur Edeson succeeded in filling the screen with breathtaking natural vistas as well as beautifully composed close-ups of the young stars, Marguerite Churchill and John Wayne (in his first starring role). Moments of low comedy are woven awkwardly into the narrative, but the overall effect is one of high drama. The Museum of Modern Art spent many years on the preservation of this film, working with original elements in its Fox Collection; the result is the first restoration of the complete 70mm wide-screen Grandeur version, copied to anamorphic 35mm.
Film was embraced by the Soviet state in Russia as a potent propaganda tool for communicating with a widely illiterate population. In this poster designed by the Stenberg brothers, bold geometric letterforms, brilliant color, and photographic imagery combine to produce an arresting effect. In emphatic type along the left edge and repeated in each lens of the man's glasses, the poster announces the word Odinnadstaty (The eleventh), the title of the film, which documents eleven years of progress since the October Revolution of 1917. Agricultural and industrial machinery documented in the film are also reflected in the glasses, creating an analogy between the human eye and the camera lens. Despite the Stenbergs' fascination with film and photographic techniques, they hand-drew this and other designs on a lithographic printing surface.
Finsterlin, a painter, toy designer, and architectural visionary, is closely associated with the German Expressionist architecture of the 1920s, which privileged inspiration over rationalism. He was introduced to architect Bruno Taut and the Arbeitsrat für Kunst—a Berlin group of radical German architects, artists, and critics—when they invited amateurs to submit work for their 1919 Exhibition for Unknown Architects. Finsterlin, who resisted formal architectural training because he believed it would interfere with his creative vision, had a whole gallery to himself in the exhibition, and his biomorphic forms caused a sensation. Molded or cast models played an important part in Finsterlin's design process, and in that of many Expressionists, who believed in a sculptural formation of material. Finsterlin rebelled against the predominance of crystalline forms in Expressionist architecture, viewing their regular structures as too akin to rationalism. He compared his biomorphic "dwellings" with rocks smoothed by glaciers.
First-generation Abstract Expressionist painters lacked the opportunities for printmaking that would emerge in America in the late 1950s and 1960s with professional workshops and publishers. Jackson Pollock, however, managed to make prints intermittently throughout his career by taking advantage of occasions that presented themselves and by availing himself of the skills of mentors and other acquaintances who were familiar with techniques and had access to facilities. Since most of his lithographs, engravings, and screenprints were experimental and did not result in standardized editions, this aspect of his work is hardly known. In fact, the methodical nature of printmaking seems contrary to the image of Pollock as a wild man pouring paint on canvas in a kind of private performance. Pollock's prints, nearly fifty compositions in all, went through evolving states, trial proofs, variant inking and uses of paper, and hand additions. The work illustrated here comes from a group of eleven plates he prepared at Atelier 17, a printing facility established by Stanley William Hayter in Paris and relocated to New York during World War II. It was there that exiled European artists gathered and introduced the principles of Surrealism to their young American counterparts. Hayter himself encouraged a method of engraving that allowed for a spontaneous articulation of line resembling "automatism," an unfettered Surrealist drawing technique in which thoughts and desires deep in the subconscious were prompted to the surface. Pollock's engravings reflect his absorption not only of automatist drawing, but also of totemic imagery of the American Southwest, mythic archetypes from his Jungian psychoanalysis, and the work of such artists as Joan Miró and Pablo Picasso. This print is a quintessential example of that realm between representation and abstraction occupying him in the mid-1940s and ultimately leading to the totally abstract, linear skeins of his most celebrated canvases.
First Light is a twenty-part retrospective of the artist's planned projected-light installations of 1966–67. The portfolio is divided into five subsets, each of which pictures a single shape of light (square, triangle, rectangle, parallelogram, or column) projected against a wall or corner; in this set, a cube seems to change position and shape from sheet to sheet. Turrell collaborated with a master printer known for his work with aquatint, a technique that allows for the use of tone rather than line; here, a rainbow of grays creates a dramatic sense of light, darkness, and space. The artist considers First Light to be his most important printmaking project; while other works on paper are "about" his installation work, he has said, First Light is uniquely "like" his work. This set is a substantial complement to Turrell's works in other mediums in the collection, including the permanent site-specific installation Meeting (1986), at MoMA PS1, in Queens—a meditative room with a massive rectangular skylight cut into its ceiling.
"Fit your parts into one another and build up your figure as a carpenter does a house. Everything must be constructed—built up of parts that make a unit; a tree like a human body, a human body like a cathedral." So Matisse believed the sculptor should proceed, and the credo can be sensed in this work and throughout the group of four relief sculptures to which it belongs, with its progressive stability and simplicity. Matisse did not conceive The Backs as a series, but occasionally returned to the theme over the years. Even so, these reliefs—his largest sculptures—present a coherent progress, from a relatively detailed naturalism toward a near-abstract monumentality. This work is the third in the series, and it is more vertical and less sinuous than its precursors. The first work in the series (1909) has a dynamic tension, and an arabesque line flows through it; in the second (1913), the body is more erect, less fluid. The left leg has become a thick pillar; making the figure more solid. The third work leads to the fourth (1931), where Matisse suppresses physical detail, making the contours more fluid, the surface more homogeneous. But if he surrenders expressiveness in the sculpture's parts, he regains it in the symmetrical harmony of the work as a whole.
Focusing on the natural world in his art, Penone explores concepts of growth and regeneration through sculpture, interventions, and imprints that transfer the image of body parts or the textures of natural elements onto paper. Here he has made a rubbing from planks of wood. Penone has said, "I feel the forest breathing and hear the slow, inexorable growth of the wood."
Fontana founded the Italian postwar movement Spazialismo, which aimed to bring art and science together. He is best known for groundbreaking work in which he slashed, cut, punctured, and bored into the surfaces of his paintings, drawings, prints, and sculptures in an attempt to transcend illusionistic representation.These strategies can be seen in the "illustrations" Fontana contributed to a book by Otto Hahn about the iconoclastic French playwright, actor, poet, artist, and director Antonin Artaud (1896–1948). Through his theories about art and theater and his experiences with drug addiction and institutionalization, Artaud became a figure of tremendous interest among artists in the 1960s. To illustrate this book, Fontana created a set of punctured sheets of steel, brass, and plexiglass kept in a sculptural container.
For almost thirty years, the Los Angeles-based artist Andrea Fraser has been engaged in an ongoing investigation of what we want from art. Combining feminist perspectives on subjectivity and desire with the site-specific and research-based practices that emerged with Conceptual art and institutional critique in the late 1960s, Fraser uses performance, video, and a range of other mediums to explore and critique the motivations that drive artists, art collectors, art dealers, corporate sponsors, museum trustees, and museum visitors. The Public Life of Art: The Museum was filmed at The Metropolitan Museum of Art and The Museum of Modern Art. The video, produced by Terry McCoy, was created in collaboration with New York-based artist and photographer Louise Lawler. The first-ever performance Fraser realized for video, The Public Life of Art: The Museum features the artist discussing the social history of the art museum, from corporate sponsorship to economic social policy.
For as little as three dollars, this dress allowed teenage fans to parade their allegiance to a pop icon and was easily disposable after the novelty wore off. “Toughness is woven into the non–woven fabric for long, l–o–n–g wear,” read the packaging, “and should you tire (which is doubtful), just cut open all the seams and hang it on your wall as a poster, or cover pillows.” Although they were treated for fire– and water–resistance and were surprisingly sturdy, paper dresses required wearers to be constantly on guard against lit cigarettes and spilled drinks. By 1969 the short–lived paper–dress craze was all but over.
Ford was the first manufacturer to develop a V8 engine—previously associated with luxury and specialist cars—for a mass market. In employing Cassandre, Ford infused its corporate reputation for industrial innovation with the artistic cachet of European modernism. Cassandre was already established as a preeminent French poster designer and in 1936 he had become the first graphic artist to have a solo exhibition at MoMA. This compelling image of a disembodied, all-seeing eye is rooted in a classical tradition that emphasizes the primacy of vision in Western culture; the eye is also prevalent in Surrealist art of the 1920s. Trailing from the iris, the slogan "Watch the Fords Go By" gives a sense of modern vision, always in motion, while the V8 icon imprinted on the pupil suggests a fusion of mind, body, and technology—a synthesis that revolutionized individual perception in the modern world.
For her series Riffs on Real Time, Hewitt repurposed domestic and personal objects such as family snapshots, books, magazines, and handwritten letters to create still lifes that intertwine personal and historical narratives. Each of the photographs pictures three elements: an intimate snapshot, a piece of historical or everyday ephemera, and a highly textured monochromatic backdrop. Although at first glance it appears as if Hewitt came across the arrangements by chance, each one is meticulously composed, revealing a sculptural approach to image making. The play of meaning between the items in her photographs is sometimes deeply personal and other times more broadly political, often questioning the nostalgia that is evoked through family mementos and relics of the civil rights era.
For his Eraserhead series, begun in the mid-1990s, Holstad alters newspaper photographs by rubbing out parts of images and redrawing over the compositions in pencil. "It seems to me that newspapers weren't able to write exactly what they wanted to write," the artist has said of his motives. "You had to read between the lines and make sense of it all yourself. In part, my drawings are a response to that." In these works, personalities familiar from current events are obscured into spectral monsters; here, the faces of two well-dressed men blur together into a doubled, melting mask.
For Johns the common shooting target is one of the many "things the mind already knows." Using familiar objects "gives me room to work on other levels," he has explained. Though the target is closely linked with the acts of looking and aiming, the concentric circles of Johns's version are obscured and the surface made tactile with encaustic—pigment mixed with beeswax—on collage. Mounted above the target, four plaster casts taken from a single model over a period of several months are arranged in nonsequential order. A hinged wooden lid offers the option of shutting away the small niches that hold these cropped, eyeless faces.
For many years Bontecou's sculptures and drawings featured billowing sail-like forms that implied movement. Here she literally set sculpture into motion. In this slowly whirling galaxy of forms, small porcelain orbs and sections of wire mesh are connected to an intricate network of piano wire that radiates from a central blue sphere. Typical of Bontecou's work, the sphere conjures an array of associations—a planet, a satellite, an eye, and a blowfish or other primordial-looking sea creature. Bontecou has characterized the process of making this body of work as akin to drawing in space: "I always wanted to move away from the wall, so I began hanging the works. I started small, combining porcelain, different clays, and screen. The process was getting closer to drawing, which is so free. And it can go on endlessly."
For Mehretu, abstraction "allows for thinking of an issue from different perspectives, from many points of view." "I work with source material that I am interested in conceptually, politically, or even just visually," she has explained. "I pull from all of this material, project it, trace it, break it up, recontextualize it, layer one on the other, and envelop it into the DNA of the painting. It then becomes the context, the history, the point of departure. It becomes the place of the painting."
For more than three decades, Atget photographed Paris—its ancient streets and monuments and finely wrought details, its corners and hovels and modern commerce, and its outlying parks. He was not an artist in the conventional sense but a specialized craftsman, who supplied pictorial records of French culture to artists, antiquarians, and librarians. That, at least, is how he earned his living. Shortly before his death, however, other photographers began to recognize that Atget's work is art in everything but name: full of wit, invention, beauty, wisdom, and the disciplined cultivation of original perceptions.This picture of the front of a men's clothing store belongs to a series of photographs of store windows that Atget made in the highly creative last years of his life. He easily could have minimized the reflection in the window, in which we see part of the Gobelins complex, where tapestries had been made for nearly three centuries. Instead, he welcomed it. Indelibly melding two images into one, the photograph simultaneously evokes France's modern fashions and one of her most noble artistic traditions.
For more than twenty years, Barney has explored the rarefied stratum of American society to which she belongs—a life of New England summer homes and spacious New York apartments decorated in coordinated fabrics. Her color photographs of family and friends were made with a large-format camera on a tripod, but they are imbued with a sense of intimacy and informality that connects them to the tradition of family snapshots.In 1996 Barney turned her attention across the Atlantic. In Austria, Italy, England, France, Spain, and Germany she photographed the aristocratic equivalent of the elite society in which she lived and worked in the United States, but in Europe these individuals and families were frequently strangers to her, introduced through an intermediary. While her American photographs often have the sitters' given names as titles, underscoring their familiarity, for her European work Barney frequently chose titles that relate to details in the settings: for instance, The Yellow Wall.The photographs that constitute The Europeans, as this body of work came to be called, are more akin to painted still lifes than to her earlier work, with its seemingly improvised character. In these photographs there is a formality, an attention to color, space, and subtlety of manner that befits old-world nobility and is related to the Old Master paintings frequently hanging in the subjects' homes.
For over a decade Grotjahn has probed the internal logic of his deceptively simple trademark form, which he identifies as a butterfly. At first glance this work may bring to mind 1950s high modernism, but unlike early Color Field painters Grotjahn is not concerned with flattening the picture plane. To create the illusion that his geometries stretch, shrink, approach, and recede, the artist uses a multiple–vanishing–point perspective technique, famously adopted by Renaissance artists to give a sense of depth to their paintings. Grotjahn rejects the hard–edge precision typically associated with formal abstraction in favor of a handmade aesthetic.
For over forty years, German artists Bernd and Hilla Becher have photographed water towers, blast furnaces, silos, cooling towers, gas tanks, grain elevators, oil refineries, and the like—all examples of the European and American industrial architecture that has begun to disappear in the transition from an industrial to an information society. Their works typically present each structure frontally against flat, evenly gray backgrounds. By using large–format cameras and finely grained black-and-white film, they ensure that the motifs they photograph are rendered with a high degree of precision and clarity.The Bechers organize the images into groupings assembled in a grid, classified by function into types. In this strict layout, each structure may easily be compared with the others. The nine separate pictures in Water Towers together transform the specificity of the individual towers into a variation on an ideal form and, conversely, preserve their individual characteristics within a typology.
For several years while pursuing his doctorate at the MIT Media Lab, Fry devoted his work to the visual translation of genomic findings. Several of his works are on view here, but it is apt to begin with one of his most encompassing and ambitious projects, the seventy million letters of genetic code that form chromosome 18. The darker color depicts sequences of code that are used by a cell as a set of instructions for building a protein. These instructions are interrupted by unused pieces of code, which have a medium tone in the image. The gray areas currently have no known function. At seventy-five million DNA bases (each represented by one of four letters), this is the sixth shortest human chromosome. It would take forty- five images of this size to depict the genetic code of the entire human genome, more than three billion letters.
"For some reason (probably clear to a psychiatrist) four design projects in which I have recently been involved have all had a strong emphasis on sex in the form of the female anatomy," remarked Brownjohn in his 1964 article "Sex and Typography," published in the avant-garde magazine Typographica. The four projects include this advertisement as well as the title sequences for the James Bond films From Russia with Love (1963) and Goldfinger (1964), projects that demonstrate the ease with which Brownjohn moved between still and moving graphic design concepts. Brownjohn, who had a cheerful enthusiasm for Playboy magazine, said that his "disordered" mind helped him produce his own compositions, which integrate sex and modern typography with a commercial or narrative message.
"For some reason (probably clear to a psychiatrist) four design projects in which I have recently been involved have all had a strong emphasis on sex in the form of the female anatomy," remarked Brownjohn in his 1964 article "Sex and Typography," published in the avant-garde magazine Typographica. The four projects include this exhibition poster as well as the title sequences for the James Bond films From Russia with Love (1963) and Goldfinger (1964), projects that demonstrate the ease with which Brownjohn moved between still and moving graphic design concepts. Brownjohn, who had a cheerful enthusiasm for Playboy magazine, said that his "disordered" mind helped him produce his own compositions, which integrate sex and modern typography with a commercial or narrative message.
For the 1920 UNOVIS production, Vitebsk, USSR. Libretto by Aleksei Kruchenykh. Music by Mikhail Matyushin Performed for the first time in St. Petersburg in 1913, Victory Over the Sun imagined a utopian, mechanized future exemplified by humanity's imprisonment of the sun and its replacement with a new, technological source of light and energy. Written in zaum, an experimental poetic language invented by Russian Futurists and meant to emphasize the inherent meaning of sounds, the opera has been called the first example of Futurist theater. In their reduced geometry, the original sets and costumes by Russian artist Kazimir Malevich heralded an abstraction that became known as Suprematism. In 1920 Lissitsky executed his own designs for Victory Over the Sun, but they were never realized theatrically. In them he represents characters such as the Sportsmen and the Announcer as abstract, electromechanical dolls. Following the opera's own themes, Lissitsky imagined a new kind of theater performed by machines.
For the 1920 UNOVIS production, Vitebsk, USSR. Libretto by Aleksei Kruchenykh. Music by Mikhail MatyushinPerformed for the first time in St. Petersburg in 1913, Victory Over the Sun imagined a utopian, mechanized future exemplified by humanity's imprisonment of the sun and its replacement with a new, technological source of light and energy. Written in zaum, an experimental poetic language invented by Russian Futurists and meant to emphasize the inherent meaning of sounds, the opera has been called the first example of Futurist theater. In their reduced geometry, the original sets and costumes by Russian artist Kazimir Malevich heralded an abstraction that became known as Suprematism. In 1920 Lissitsky executed his own designs for Victory Over the Sun, but they were never realized theatrically. In them he represents characters such as the Sportsmen and the Announcer as abstract, electromechanical dolls. Following the opera's own themes, Lissitsky imagined a new kind of theater performed by machines.
For the 1922 Ballets Suédois production (premiere Paris). Choreography by Jean Börlin. Music by Arthur Honegger. Based on the poem "Skating Rink à Tabarin/Ballet-aux-Patins/pour la musique" (1920) by Ricciotto Canudo Skating Rink is the first of Léger's two commissions for the Ballets Suédois, the company founded by Swedish art collector Rolf de Maré on the model of Serge Diaghilev's Ballets Russes. Léger's sense that the rhythm of industry and the modern city's everyday bustle are the most entrancing of spectacles is captured in this production. The dancers' mechanical actions—reminiscent of the unending rhythm of the assembly line—create a centrifugal sweep around a working-class neighborhood's  skating rink.
For the 1923 Ballets Suédois production (premiere Paris). Choreography by Jean Börlin. Music by Darius Milhaud. Scenario by Blaise Cendrars, based on an African legend This work exemplifies the way Léger and other artists associated with Cubism made use of African sculpture for their own pictorial, compositional, and narrative ends. Along with the ballet's jazz–inflected score and frenzied choreography, these designs shed light on the fascination with the "primitive" so in vogue in Paris at that time. These drawings depict Nzame, Medere, and N'kava, the ballet's deities of creation, who emerge from chaos and oversee the transformation of flora and fauna from an undistinguished mass into an organized dance. According to the ballet's composer, Léger rejected several early designs he deemed "too bright and 'pretty-pretty,'" and he was "never satisfied that his sketches were terrifying enough."
For the 1937 Col. W de Basil's Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo production (premiere London). Choreography by Michel Fokine. Music by Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov Goncharova designed the sets and costumes for the original 1914 Ballets Russes premiere of Le Coq d'or and revised her work for the revival by the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo, a successor company led by Colonel Wassily de Basil. The ballet was based on Aleksandr Pushkin's 1835 poem "The Tale of the Golden Cockerel," which was itself adapted from a Russian fairytale. For this elaborate backdrop for act 3, in which the King and Queen return to a waiting crowd outside the palace entrance, Goncharova drew inspiration from the bold outlines of Russian icon painting and the abstract patterns of peasant embroidery, using tradition to fuel the modern.
For the 1938 Ballet Caravan production (premiere Hartford, Connecticut). Choreography by Lew Christensen. Music by Virgil Thomson. Book by Lincoln Kirstein Filling Station was a keystone in the uniquely American repertory of Lincoln Kirstein's concert group, the Ballet Caravan. Founded in 1936, the Caravan represented one in a series of companies that eventually led to Kirstein's establishment of the New York City Ballet. In 1941 the company merged with American Ballet to become the American Ballet Caravan, a  touring group that brought homegrown themes to audiences in South America. Filling Station, which concerns a gas-station attendant's run-ins with various patrons, received rave reviews in the United States and abroad. The ballet's subject matter allowed Cadmus to further explore themes seen in his fine–art practice: the eroticized male body and views of everyday American life.
For the 1942 Ballet Theatre of New York production (premiere Mexico City). Choreography by Léonide Massine. Music by Pyotr Ilich Tchaikovsky Chagall accompanied the Ballet Theatre troupe to Mexico, where, outside the jurisdiction of American stage-painters' unions, he was able to help execute his designs. He also personally decorated many of the more than seventy costumes for Aleko, some of which were sewn by his wife, Bella.
For the 1942 Ballet Theatre of New York production (premiere Mexico City). Choreography by Léonide Massine. Music by Pyotr Ilich TchaikovskyChagall left Paris for the United States in 1941, and the following year the choreographer Léonide Massine asked the artist to design a new ballet based on Aleksandr Pushkin's 1824 poem "The Gypsies." An admirer of Pushkin, Chagall was eager to work on this Russian-themed ballet, which tells the story of Aleko, a young man who falls in love with the gypsy girl Zemphira, but eventually kills her. These designs for the ballet's four scenic backdrops read as a lexicon of Chagall's painterly motifs: lovers and animals hover against richly saturated grounds, with traces of villages far below. While many theater designers leave the execution of their plans to professional stage painters, Chagall was involved in hand painting the final backdrops.
For the 1942 Ballet Theatre of New York production (premiere Mexico City). Choreography by Léonide Massine. Music by Pyotr Ilich Tchaikovsky In addition to designing the decor and costumes for Aleko, Chagall used line and wash to suggest overall stage compositions and body positions for the ballet's choreographer, Léonide Massine. The boisterous group dances accompanied by hand clapping and fiddle playing depicted in these drawings attest to Aleko's folk-inflected spirit.
For the 1976 Byrd Hoffman Foundation/Festival d'Avignon production (premiere Avignon, France). Music by Philip Glass. Choreography by Andrew de Groat and Lucinda Childs. Directed by Robert Wilson This drawing was made in preparation for Wilson's opera Einstein on the Beach. The four-and-a-half-hour-long piece consists of scenes loosely relating to Albert Einstein's personal life and scientific achievements. Wilson's high-contrast drawing foregrounds luminosity as a central preoccupation of the production, both as a metaphor for knowledge and as the potential, blinding result of Einstein's theories. The spaceship rendered here was the idea of the production's composer, Philip Glass, who said, "My music sounds to me like the motor of a spaceship, so I said I wanted a spaceship in the opera."
For the 2005 De Munt/La Monnaie production (premiere Brussels). Music by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. Directed by William Kentridge. Music direction by René Jacob and Piers Maxim. Designed by Kentridge and Sabine Theunissen. Costumes by Greta Goiris In preparation for directing and co-designing a production of Mozart's The Magic Flute, Kentridge created two bodies of work, Learning the Flute and Preparing the Flute. Through these drawings and models Kentridge arrived at the central metaphor of the stage as camera. His design employs photography's positive and negative imagery to emphasize the opera's larger themes—characters include both the Queen of the Night and Sarastro, the high priest of light. In this process-oriented design Kentridge marks up the perspectival space, maintaining the active sense of erasure and revision that characterizes the drawings for his stop-motion films.
For the last decade Alÿs has made repeated trips to the dusty highlands south of Mexico City to chase the tornadoes that frequently occur in that region at the end of the dry season. Tornado unfolds in three movements: waiting for the storms, pursuing them, and catching or missing them. Depicting a one-on-one challenge of the power of nature, the work is a recognition of human persistence, emphasizing the necessity of pursuing ideals however unattainable or absurd they may seem. It is also a reflection on the present chaotic state of Mexico and a study of the search for a moment of order within it; scientifically speaking, tornadoes are instances of order emerging from chaos.
For this collage, Paolozzi appropriated a robot figure from a British children's book on inventions in the 1930s and placed it in an environment culled from a German book of tile manufacturers. Most often identified as a founder of Pop art, Paolozzi said, "What I like to think I'm doing is an extension of radical Surrealism." The figure of the automaton was dear to the Surrealists, who saw in the half-human, half-machine the confusion between the living and the inanimate that Sigmund Freud called the uncanny. Paolozzi refers to this tradition while updating it to reflect Pop's fascination with industry and technology.
For this double-page lithograph, Warhol used the same source image as he did for his Marilyn Monroe paintings and screenprints. Here, he isolated the detail of the movie star's mouth, presenting it at once as a disembodied symbol and a reproducible commodity.
For this print Marisol constructed a self-portrait out of catalpa leaves found near the ULAE workshop, inking the leaves before pressing them onto the stone. The dazzling and unnatural color adds to the composition's seductive impact.
For this work, Celmins made bronze casts of eleven rocks and then painted the casts to resemble the original stones as closely as possible. In an interview, she recalled, "I got the idea for this piece while walking in northern New Mexico picking up rocks, as people do. I'd bring them home and I kept the good ones. I noticed that I kept a lot that had galaxies on them. I carried them around in the trunk of my car. I put them on window sills. I lined them up. And, finally, they formed a set, a kind of constellation. I developed this desire to try and put them into an art context. Sort of mocking art in a way, but also to affirm the act of making: the act of looking and making as a primal act of art." By having each original rock installed with its duplicate, Celmins invites the viewer to examine them closely: "Part of the experience of exhibiting them together with the real stones," she has said, "was to create a challenge for your eyes. I wanted your eyes to open wider."
For while it is probably not possible to make a drawing without a conscious intention, the drawing does possess a life of its own, an insistence, a meaning, which is fundamental to its existence.    —Michael Graves Michael Graves designed the Fargo-Moorhead Cultural Center and Bridge as a replacement for a vehicular traffic bridge spanning the Red River and physically connecting the states of Minnesota and North Dakota. On one side of Graves's bridge, in Fargo, lie a concert hall and a public-radio and television station; an interpretive center for the region's cultural heritage lies on the other; and an art museum, shown in this drawing, bridges the two. The drawing is what Graves terms "definitive": preceded by referential and preparatory drawings that are incomplete and fragmentary, it reflects the final proposal for the built object through dimension, proportion, and detail. Graves's palette of terra-cotta and blue visually reinforces the significance of the building as a bridge, an extension of the earth situated midway between sky and water. Inversions of architectural elements do the same: voids in what would traditionally be the sites of keystones, and columns displaced from the sides of arches to their centers, transmit the light above to the water below. In the case of the center column, this vertical connection is literally constructed: the column's capital appears visually as a window of light supported by a shaft of water. Graves's work, often called "postmodern", is a departure from the functionalist and formal foundations of the International Style. It was significantly influenced by the notion of the architectural sign theorized by Robert Venturi in Complexity and Contradiction in Architecture (1966): like Venturi, Graves uses architectural elements representationally rather than structurally or functionally. He is a painter as well as an architect, and his use of drawing alone as a medium through which to design echoes the "pure visibility" of his architecture, in which meaning is collapsed onto the facade in a pastiche of color and form.
Founded in 1911, Die Aktion was a weekly journal for politics, literature, and art that featured original prints by Expressionist artists on its covers and interior pages. Along with the periodical Der Sturm it was a leading organ of the Expressionist movement in Berlin. Its founder and editor, Franz Pfemfert, was a Socialist and a pacifist, and the prints often appeared in the context of social criticism.
Four years working on the railroad, according to the artist, "completely tore me away from the pretensions of art, even my own, and I was back on the horizontal lines of steel and rust." With systems of regular units, Andre rejected the notion of sculpture mounted on a pedestal and viewed from a distance. His desire "to make something to be in the world" is realized by the fact that this sculpture can be inadvertently or purposefully walked on. However, recent research into the properties of lead compels the Museum to caution visitors against stepping on this work.
Frail yet erect, a man gestures with his left arm and points with his right. We have no idea what he points to, or why. Anonymous and alone, he is also almost a skeleton. For the Existentialist philosopher Jean-Paul Sartre, in fact, Giacometti's sculpture was "always halfway between nothingness and being."Such sculptures were full of meaning to Sartre, who said of them, "At first glance we seem to be up against the fleshless martyrs of Buchenwald. But a moment later we have a quite different conception: these fine and slender natures rise up to heaven. We seem to have come across a group of Ascensions."In the years leading up to World War II, Giacometti abandoned his earlier Surrealism. Dissatisfied with the resource of imagination, he returned to the resource of vision, focusing on the human figure and working from live models. Under his eyes, however, these models seem virtually to have dissolved. Working in clay (the preparation to casting in bronze), Giacometti scraped away the body's musculature, so that the flesh seems eaten off by a terrible surrounding emptiness, or to register the air around it as a hostile pressure. Recording the touch of the artist's fingers, the surface of Man Pointing is as rough as if charred or corroded. At the same time, the figure dominates its space, even from a distance.
Free from "styling," this receiver conforms to the modernist view that form should follow function. "A good design," Kaufmann wrote, "will never pretend to be more than one thing at a time. . . . Beware the radio that looks like a tea caddy." By the end of World War II, Hallicrafters, an Army supplier, was an established name in shortwave radio. In 1944 the company turned its attention from technically minded ham radio operators to amateur and professional markets. Their postwar models covered the widest tuning range of any commercial receivers at the time and could be used for standard broadcast—even by children. The Loewy office designed these radio cases with hinged tops for access to the inner workings and color-coded controls arranged according to function.
Friedrich St. Florian's Vertical City, a tower of three hundred stories, was a visionary urban proposal that he believed could actually be built. The cylindrical form of the structural components was intended to allow the city to soar above the clouds, thusa granting at least a hundred additional days of sunlight to those at the top. The regions beyond the clouds were designated for those most in need of light—hospitals, schools, and the elderly—which could be continually provided by solar technology. Like the modern linear city, the vertical version had centralized stations for transportation, communication, and energy.
Friedrich St. Florian undertook the theoretical Himmelbett project during a period in which he oscillated between embracing and rejecting built form, and explored the juxtaposition between real physical space and the imaginary realm of dreams. In this drawing, a holographic projection of the sky, or heaven, hovers above what St. Florian described as a classic bed, constructed from the essential building blocks of steel and stone. The green marble floor was to have a high polish in order to reflect the sky above. This would, in effect, allow the inhabitant to float somewhere between heaven and earth, as if taking a "walk into the sky."
From 1919 to 1920, Ernst created a series of works by printing, stamping, tracing, or taking rubbings from metal plates or type. These printing tools were borrowed from a commercial press. Ernst arranged the plates, frequently turning and reusing the same block and adding connecting lines with pen and ink to produce images of anthropomorphic machines. Rather than evoking dependable technological power, the pseudo-machine depicted in this work seems precarious at best. The inscription "Adieu mon beau pays de Marie Laurencin" (Farewell My Beautiful Land of Marie Laurencin) alludes to Marie Laurencin, a French artist who assisted Ernst in his failed attempt to exhibit his artwork in Paris. "Help!" scribbled in both French and German add a note of urgency.
From 1948 to 1951 Stern contributed weekly photomontages for the column "Psychoanalysis Will Help You" in the Argentinean women's magazine Idilio (Idyll). Edited by sociologist Gino Germani under the pen name Richard Rest, the column provided psychoanalytic views on the dreams of working-class women mobilized to social ascendance by the promises of President Juan Domingo Peron and his second wife, Eva Peron. Behind a layer of playfulness, this photomontage expresses a sense of urgency about giving voice to the hidden desires expressed in women's dreams.
From behind, these sculptures resemble nothing so much as half-buried boulders, or the tips of submerged outcrops of living rock. It is only from the front that they show the results of human artifice: two simple cuts, one horizontal, one vertical. In each stone the result is a flat and ample ledge with an upright back—an invitation to sit.The opportunity extended by Pair of Rock Chairs is actually not only physical but social, for two seats will tempt two people to rest and talk. Burton had a deep interest in social exchange—in fact, his first artworks were performances in front of an audience. His sculpture developed out of the furniture he used as props in these performances, and always remains part furniture, undermining the common notion that art is somehow separate from everyday life. Burton admired the Russian Constructivist artists who, earlier in the century, had linked innovative forms to a concern with their practical social applications. The natural shapes of these chairs, and their beautiful surface—variously rough and smooth, and veined in gray and white—inject aesthetic pleasure into their obvious usefulness.
From the late 1920s through the 1960s, Adams made hundreds of photographs of Yosemite Valley, and he often aimed to evoke its vastness and sublime grandeur. Many of his pictures, however, are quite intimate. In this view, for example, the cliffs do not seem to loom above us. Instead, along with the trees and the reflections in the water, the face of the cliff belongs to a gossamer tissue of glittering detail, animated by light.Adams's devotion to wild nature made him a figurehead for conservationists, and his mastery of technique made him a hero to many who were unable to distinguish between the art and craft of photography. But all that came much later. When he made this picture, Adams was still practically unknown. His love of nature was a matter of private feeling, not political conviction; and his attention to craft was not a matter of slavish adherence to formulas and rules. It was made necessary by his art, in which the most ephemeral fluctuation of weather or light could be a major event.
From the late 1960s to the mid-1970s Hammons made a series of "body prints" by pressing his skin and clothing, smeared with grease or margarine, against a board or a sheet of paper and then sprinkling the surface with graphite or pigment. This early example is a haunting image of the artist in profile with his hands joined in prayer. Created during a time of nationwide protests, race riots, and demonstrations against the Vietnam War, these works may reflect what Hammons described in the 1960s as his “moral obligation as a black artist to try to graphically document what I feel socially.”
From the moment Fallingwater was built, critics recognized this private retreat for Edgar J. Kaufmann, a Pittsburgh department store magnate, as a masterpiece of modern architecture. It is one of Wright's boldest creations, integrating architecture and nature. Situated atop a waterfall in a wooded ravine in western Pennsylvania, the house is anchored to a large boulder, which serves in the interior as the central hearth and the symbolic core of domestic life. From here the house extends vertically and horizontally in rhythmic patterns out into the landscape. Made of rough-cut stone from a nearby quarry, the walls and chimney complement the natural strata of the site.As shown in The Museum of Modern Art's model, sleek cantilevered balconies of reinforced concrete, made possible by modern engineering, seem to float effortlessly, if precariously, over the water. Their shape echoes the stepped rock ledges in the stream. An outdoor staircase suspended from below the living room leads to the plunge pool below.Fallingwater embodies Wright's deeply held values about the underlying unity of humans and nature, which is reflected in his selection of building materials. As a great work of art, Fallingwater  transcends its function as a house to meet a client's needs and symbolizes an American democratic ideal: to be able to live a free life in nature.
Fronzoni found inspiration in what he called the “plainness” and “simple abstract and geometric forms” of Japanese design. He said, “I love rationalism in twentieth-century architecture and art. . . . I detest everything that is superfluous, surplus, redundant, all forms of waste.” These posters are remarkable examples of his minimalist, rigorously black–and–white aesthetic. They feature mostly words, using lettering as structure, means, and ornament of communication. Others feature basic geometric shapes and patterns; lines, voids, and solids are primary tools of composition.
F.T. Marinetti (1876-1944), Rome, 1931 [1]; by inheritance to Benedetta Marinetti (1897-1977), Rome, 1944; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1948 (Aristide Maillol Fund).  [1] Cast ordered by F.T. Marinetti from Gaetano Chiurazzi Foundry, Rome in 1931.
Fuller and Sadao designed this crystalline pyramid for Matsutaro Shoriki, a Japanese financier. The form is a tetrahedron (a four-sided triangular solid), with each edge measuring two miles. The buoyant metropolis was designed to accommodate one million citizens in 300,000 apartment units, and it even includes a huge interior harbor. Fuller, who spent his career searching for "ever higher performance with ever less investment of material resources," envisioned Tetrahedron City as an efficient response to two major problems of architecture and urban planning: construction costs and land acquisition. The tetrahedral composition with an aluminum octet truss system makes the structure's enormous size feasible and economical. Additionally, by designing the city to float at sea (in this case in Tokyo Bay), the cost of real estate is diverted. Fuller and Sadao's radical urban proposal was never built.
Full Fathom Five is one of Pollock's first "drip" paintings. While its top layers consist of poured lines of black and shiny silver house paint, a large part of the paint's crust was applied by brush and palette knife; the result is a labyrinthine web that reveals an instantaneous unity between multiple crisscrossing and planar forms with no contours. An assortment of detritus, from cigarette butts to coins and a key, are enfolded by the paint. Though many of these items are obscured, they contribute to the painting's dense surface and churning sensation. The title, suggested by Pollock's neighbor, quotes from Shakespeare's The Tempest, wherein Ariel describes a death by shipwreck: "Full fathom five thy father lies / Of his bones are coral made / Those are pearls that were his eyes."
Gagged and blinded by a serpentine rope, the head in this poster is suggestive of both victim and oppressor: like their prisoners, the police hear, see, and say nothing. Martial law was imposed in Poland in December 1981 in an attempt to crush support for Solidarity, the first non-Communist trade union in a Communist country.
Galerie Alfred Flechtheim (d. 1937), Berlin. 1929 – [1937][Van Lier Kunstzaal, Amsterdam. From Flechtheim for a Grosz exhibition, 1936 – 1938]Auction sale, Estate of Alfred Flechtheim, Mak van Waay, Amsterdam, February 1-2, 1938, no. 278[Carel Van Lier (Van Lier Kunstzaal), Amsterdam. Purchased at auction, February 1938][Willem Beffie, Amsterdam. Purchased from Carel van Lier, April 9, 1938 ?]Mr. and Mrs. Leo Lionni, Milan and New York. [Purchased from Carel van Lier, April 9, 1938, or gift/bequest from Willem Beffie] – 1954The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift of Mr. and Mrs. Leo Lionni, December 1954
[Galerie Bernheim-Jeune, Paris. 1908 - ][Galerie Vildrac, Paris. By 1913]Galerie Alfred Flechtheim, Düsseldorf. By January 1922Private collection, Hannover. By 1922[Galerie Charpentier, Paris. By 1949]Mrs. B. Charlet, Paris. By 1951Perls Gallery (Hugo Perls), New York. By 1955The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift of Mr. and Mrs. Peter A. Rübel. Purchased by donors from Perls Gallery, 1955
Galerie Bernheim-Jeune, ParisJames Thrall Soby (1906-1979), New Canaan, Connecticut and New York, New York. Purchased from Bernheim-Jeune, November 2, 1932 - 1979The Museum of Modern Art. James Thrall Soby Bequest, 1979
Galerie Beyeler, Basel; [sold to Hauswedell, Hamburg, 1966]; sold through Kornfeld & Klipstein, Bern, auction #121 (lot #759) to Heinz Berggruen/Contemporary Art Establishment, Zurich, June 11, 1966; sold to The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1968.
[Galerie Briant-Robert, Paris]Mr. and Mrs. Solomon Ethe, New York. Acquired in the late 1950s - 1963Robert Elkon Gallery, New York. On consignment from Mr. and Mrs. Solomon Ethe, 1963[David Hayes, New York]William and Mary S. Sisler, New York, and Palm Beach, Florida. By 1975 - 1990The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Mary Sisler Bequest, 1990
Galerie Der Sturm, Berlin; sold to Heinrich Stinnes (1867-1932), Cologne, April 28, 1916; Estate of Heinrich Stinnes; auctioned at Gutekunst and Klipstein, June 20-22, 1938 (lot 70); to Dr. F. H. Hirschland, New York, ?; given anonymously to The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1954
Galerie Der Sturm, Berlin; to Heinrich Stinnes (1876-1932), Cologne, June 12, 1917; Heinrich Stinnes Estate; sold through Gutekunst & Klipstein, June 20-22, 1938.Curt Valentin, New York,?; to The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1942
Galerie Der Sturm (Herwarth Walden, 1879-1941), Berlin. 1920 - 1922 (on consignment)Katherine S. Dreier (1877-1952), NY. [Purchased from artist], 1922 - 1953The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Katherine S. Dreier Bequest, 1953
Galerie Der Sturm (Herwarth Walden, 1879-1941), Berlin. 1922 (on consignment) – [1924]Katherine S. Dreier (1877-1952), New York. [Purchased from artist?] – 1953The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Katherine S. Dreier Bequest, 1953
Galerie Der Sturm (Herwarth Walden, 1879-1941), Berlin. 1922 (on consignment from artist)Katherine S. Dreier (1877-1952), NY. [Purchased from artist], 1922 – 1953The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Katherine S. Dreier Bequest, 1953
Galerie Druet, Paris, 1906 -1908Michael (1865-1938) and Sarah (1870-1953) Stein, Paris and Palo Alto. May 1908 - [1935] Mr. and Mrs. Philip N. Lilienthal, Atherton,  California. [Purchased from the Steins, 1935.] Owned by January 1936 - 1983 The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Purchase and partial anonymous gift, 1983
Galerie Druet, Paris [1]; Galerie Kahnweiler, Paris, by 1914 [2]; seized during the war by the French government as enemy property and sold through Hotel Drouot, Paris, May 7-8, 1923 [3]. [Galerie Katia Granoff, Paris] [4]. Sold through Hotel Drouot, Paris, to Josef Müller (1887-1977), Solothurn, Switzerland, late 1920s [5]; by inheritance to Monique Barbier (daughter of Josef Müller), Prasinge/Geneva, Switzerland, 1977; sold through Galerie Beyeler, Basel to The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1980.[1] Galerie Druet label on verso (no. 3782).[2] Michel Kellermann, André Derain: catalogue raisonné de l'oeuvre peint, Paris: Editions Galerie Schmit, 1992-1999, no. 381. Galerie  Kahnweiler label on verso.[3] Auct. cat. Tableaux, Aquarelles, Gouaches, Dessins & Estampes [4th sale of Kahnweiler collection].  Paris: Hôtel Drouot, May 7-8, 1923, lot 178: Les Baigneurs. Possibly bought back by Daniel-Henry Kahnweiler (Galerie Simon), Paris. See Suzanne Pagé, ed., André Derain: Le peintre du trouble moderne, exh. cat. Paris: Musée d'art moderne de la ville de Paris, 1994, no. 60.[4] Christoph Vitali and Hubertus Gassner, eds., Kunst über Grenzen, exh. cat. Munich: Haus der Kunst, Munich: Prestel, 2001, p. 444.[5] Ibid. Date of auction unknown.
Galerie Gmurzynska, Cologne, [1]; acquired by the McCrory Corporation (Meshulam Riklis) by 1979 [2]; The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1983 (The Riklis Collection of McCrory Corporation).[1] Label Galerie Gmurzynska, Cologne, on verso.[2] Willy Rotzler, ed., Constructivism and the Geometric Tradition: Selections from the McCrory Corporation Collection. Buffalo: Albright-Knox Art Gallery, 1979, p. 91, no. 169.
Galerie Goltz,f Munich. September 23, 1920Galerie Alfred Flechtheim (d.1937)Mayor Gallery, London. From Alfred Flechtheim, December 21, 1933[Leicester Gallery, London. From Mayor Gallery, March 5, 1936]Auction sale, Estate of Alfred Flechtheim, Mak van Waay, Amsterdam, February 1-2, 1938, no. 335[Brandt, Amsterdam. Purchased at auction, February 1938]Dr. Tannenbaum, Amsterdam, 1939Dr. William Landman, Toronto, Canada. Purchased from Dr. Tannenbaum, 1939 – 1946The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Purchased from Landman, February 1946
Galerie Jeanne Bucher, Paris. 1938 - 1939Mrs. Stanley Resor, New York. Purchased from Jeanne Bucher, 1939Miss Ann Resor (daughter of Mrs. Stanley Resor), New York The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Purchased [from Miss Resor] in 1954
Galerie Kahnweiler (Daniel-Henry Kahnweiler, 1884-1979), Paris [1]; [seized during the war by the French government as enemy property and sold through Hôtel Drouot, Paris, November 17-November 18, 1921] [2]. Pierre Loeb (1897-1964), Paris, by 1932 [3]; Marie Harriman Gallery, New York, by 1933 [4]; purchased by Sidney and Harriet Janis, New York, 1934 [5]; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1967 (The Sidney and Harriet Janis Collection).[1] Per Pierre Daix, Picasso: The Cubist Years, Boston: New York Graphic Society, 1979, no. 570: "Galerie Kahnweiler, Paris (archive photograph 248)."[2] See note in Daix: "This canvas was probably the Picasso no. 194 in the catalogue of the 2nd Kahnweiler sale, Paris 17-18 November 1921: 'Nature morte, H. 0.65 x L. 0.54 signé au dos et daté 1913,' a work which was sold for 900 fr." Tableaux, aquarelles, gouaches & dessins [2nd sale of Kahnweiler collection], Paris: Hôtel Drouot, November 17-November 18, 1921. According to Daix, the painting was originally signed and dated on the back "Picasso/1913" before it was rebacked in 1950.[3] Lender to the exhibition Picasso, Galerie Georges Petit, June 16-July 30, 1932, no. 88, repr. p. 32 (Nature morte à la guitare).[4] Included in the exhibitions French Painting, Marie Harriman Gallery, New York, February 21- March 1933, no. 4; Abstract Painting by Four Twentieth Century Artists: Picasso, Braque, Gris, Léger, The Renaissance Society, University of Chicago, January  12-February 2, 1934, no. 12; and Pablo Picasso, Wadsworth Atheneum, Hartford, Connecticut, February 6-March 1, 1934, no. 24.[5] Date of acquisition published in The Sidney and Harriet Janis Collection, exh. cat. Kunsthalle Basel et al., New York: International Council of The Museum of Modern Art, 1970,  no. 71. Reproduced in Christian Zervos, Histoire de l'art contemporain, Paris: Cahiers d'art, 1938, p. 220: "Picasso, Nature morte à la guitare, printemps 1913 (63 x 54 cm), coll. Sidney Janis." First exhibited at The Museum of Modern Art, New York in 1935: Summer Exhibition: The Museum Collection and a Private Collection on Loan, June 4-September, 24, 1935.
Galerie Kahnweiler (Daniel-Henry Kahnweiler), Paris [1]; acquired by Alfred Flechtheim (1878-1937), Düsseldorf, 1912 [2]; sold Paul Cassirer, Berlin and Hugo Helbing, Munich to Christian Tetzen-Lund (1852-1936), Copenhagen, Denmark, June 5, 1917 [3]; sold through Den Frie, Copenhagen, May 18/19, 1925 [4]. E. and A. Silberman Galleries, Inc., New York by 1958 [5]; sold to Adele R. Levy (1892-1960), New York, February 1958 [6]; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1960 (Mrs. David M. Levy Bequest) [7].[1] Label on verso: Galerie Kahnweiler, 28, rue Vignon, no. 1023.[2] Per Pierre Daix, Picasso: The Cubist Years, Boston: New York Graphic Society, 1979, no. 482. On loan from Flechtheim to the exhibition II. Gesamtausstellung, Galerie Hans Goltz, Munich, August-September 1913, no. 125.[3] Auct. cat. Galerie Flechtheim: Moderne Gemälde, Paul Cassirer, Berlin & Hugo Helbing, Munich, June 5, 1917 no. 207 (Stilleben mit Violine), repr. in Monika Flacke-Knoch and Stephan von Wiese, "Der Lebensfilm von Alfred Flechtheim," Alfred Flechtheim: Sammler. Kunsthändler. Verleger, ed. by Hans Albert Peters, exh. cat. Kunstmuseum Düsseldorf, 1987, p. 296. See also Ottfried Dascher, Alfred Flechtheim: Sammler, Kunsthändler, Verleger, Wädenswil: Nimbus, 2011, p. 434.[4] Auct. cat. Tetzen-Lunds Samlinger, Den Frie Udstillings Lokaler, May 18-19, 1925, no. 96 (Le Violon). Buyer not known. [5] Label on verso: E. and A. Silberman Galleries, 1014 Madison Avenue, NY, no. 2392A ( Still Life with Violin). Collection files, Department of Painting and Sculpture, The Museum of Modernn Art, New York.[6] Collection files, Department of Painting and Sculpture, The Museum of Modernn Art, New York.[7] Included in the exhibition The Mrs. Adele R. Levy Collection - A Memorial Exhibition, The Museum of Modern Art, New York, June 9-July 16, 1961, pp. 8, 11, 28.
Galerie Kahnweiler (Daniel-Henry Kahnweiler's first gallery, 1907-1914), ParisGertrude Stein, Paris and San Francisco. 1914 - 1946Estate of Gertrude Stein (Alice B. Toklas). 1946 - 1967David and Peggy Rockefeller, New York. 1968 - 1975The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift of David and Peggy Rockefeller, 1975
Galerie Kahnweiler (Daniel-Henry Kahnweiler's first gallery, 1907-1914), ParisRoger Fry, London. Purchased from Galerie Kahnweiler, 1913[Max-Pol Fouchet, Paris] or [Comtesse de Noailles, Paris to Serge Diaghilev, Paris]Rose Fried Gallery, New York. By 1955Richard S. Zeisler, New York. Purchased from the Rose Fried Gallery, 1955
Galerie Kahnweiler, Paris. [1914, or 1919]John Quinn (d. 1924), New York. [Likely purchased from Kahnweiler before the seizure of his gallery, 1914] – 1924Estate of John Quinn, 1924 – 1926Auction sale of the Quinn collection, Hôtel Drouot, Paris, October 28, 1926, no. 58M. Eichenberger, BerneMme Olivares, MadridSam Salz, New York[Private Collection, Eire. By 1947]Nelson A. Rockefeller, New York. By 1958 – 1979The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Nelson A. Rockefeller Bequest, 1979
[Galerie Kahnweiler, Paris] [1]. [Paul Guillaume, Paris] [2]; Marius de Zayas, Paris and New York [3], by 1917; purchased by Charles Sheeler (1883-1965), Ridgefield, Connecticut [4]; given anonymously to The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1942.[1] Label on verso.[2[ Label on verso. [3] Michel Kellermann, André Derain: catalogue raisonné de l'oeuvre peint, Paris: Editions Galerie Schmit, 1992, vol. 1, no. 379: Portrait de Madame Derain, c. 1907. Included in the exhibition Derain, Modern Gallery (Marius de Zayas), November 3-24, 1917.[4] Ibid.
Galerie Kahnweiler, Paris [1]; [possibly Ambroise Vollard, Paris] [2]; [sold to Paul Guillaume, Paris, 1920]; sold to Galerie Vildrac (Charles Vildrac), Paris, 1921-22. [Alfred Flechtheim, Berlin]. V. Jacobi, France; sold through Charles Auguste Girard, Paris to Renou & Poyet, Paris (owned jointly); [M. Gubbay, Geneva, Switzerland]; sold to Crane Kalman Gallery (Andras Kalman), London, May 4, 1964; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1964 (Mrs. George Hamlin Shaw and Loula D. Lasker Funds). [1] Michel Kellermann, André Derain: catalogue raisonné de l'oeuvre peint, Paris: Editions Galerie Schmit, 1992, vol. 1, no. 141.[2] All subsequent provenance information: Collection files, Department of Painting and Sculpture, The Museum of Modern Art, New York.
Galerie Kahnweiler, Paris [1]; sold to Wallraf-Richartz Museum, Cologne, April 14, 1913 [2]; removed as "degenerate art" by the Reich Ministry for Public Enlightenment and Propaganda, 1937 [3]; on consignment to Karl Buchholz, Berlin; to Curt Valentin (Buchholz Gallery), New York;  acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, April 13, 1939 (Abby Aldrich Rockefeller Fund) [4].[1] Label on verso: Galerie Kahnweiler/28 Rue Vignon/no. 1064. Michel Kellermann, André Derain: catalogue raisonné de l'oeuvre peint, Paris: Editions Galerie Schmit, 1992, vol. 2, no. 207: La Vallée du Lot, 1912.[2] Ibid. Wallraf-Richartz-Museum inventory no. 1196. See André Salmon, André Derain, Paris: Editions de la Nouvelle révue française 1924, p. 29: "Musée de Cologne." On loan to the following exhibitions: Derain, Galerie Flechtheim, Berlin, April 1929, no. 14 (Die Ansicht von Vers); André Derain, Kunsthalle Bern, July 7-August 18, 1935, no. 14.[3] EK no. 15749: Südliche Landschaft.[4] Included in the exhibition Art in Our Time: 10th Anniversary Exhibition, The Museum of Modern Art, May 10-September 30, 1939, no. 98.
Galerie Kahnweiler, ParisMarius de Zayas Collection, Stamford, Connecticut. By 1949Joan and Lester Avnet collection, New YorkThe Museum of Modern Art, New York. The Joan and Lester Avnet Collection, 1978
Galerie Kahnweiler, Paris; sold to Gertrude Stein (1874-1946), Paris and San Francisco, March/April 1912 [1]; Estate of Gertrude Stein, 1946 [2]; purchased through the Museum of Modern Art Syndicate by William S. Paley (1901-1990), New York, December 14, 1968 [3]; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1971 (Gift of William S. Paley).[1] See letters Daniel-Henry Kahnweiler to Getrude Stein, March 28 and April 1, 1912, qtd. in Janet Bishop, Cécile Debray, and Rebecca A. Rabinow, eds. The Steins Collect: Matisse, Picasso, and the Parisian Avant-Garde. Exh. cat. San Francisco: San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, 2011, no. 260.[2] On the Stein Estate, see Edward Burns, "Alica Toklas and the Gertrude Stein Collection, 1946-1967," Janet Bishop, Cécile Debray, and Rebecca A. Rabinow, eds., The Steins Collect: Matisse, Picasso, and the Parisian Avant-Garde. Exh. cat. San Francisco: San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, 2011, pp. 259-265.[3] William Rubin and Matthew Armstrong, eds., The William S. Paley Collection, The Museum of Modern Art, New York, Feb 2-May 7, 1992, no. 56. Collection files, Department of Painting and Sculpture, The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Included in the exhibition Four Americans in Paris: The Collections of Gertrude Stein and her Family, The Museum of Modern Art, New York, December 19, 1970-March 1, 1971.
Galerie l'Effort  Moderne (Léonce Rosenberg), Paris [1]. Helen Acheson, New York; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, December 12, 1978 (Helen Acheson Bequest).[1] Label on verso. Collection Galerie L'Effort Moderne, L. Rosenberg, Paris, no. 738. Per Geneviève Claisse. Herbin: catalogue raisonné de l'oeuvre peint. Lausanne: Editions du Grand-Pont, Paris: Bibliothèque des arts, 1993, no. 549.
Galerie L'Effort Moderne (Léonce Rosenberg), Paris [1]; sold through A. Mak, Amsterdam to unknown buyer, October 18, 1921 [2]. Samuel and Luella Maslon, Minneapolis, by 1956 [3]; Sidney Janis Gallery, New York [4]; purchased by May E. Walter (1901-1993), New York, 1960 [5]; The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1971 (Gift of Miss May E. Walter).[1] Collection Galerie L'Effort Moderne, L. Rosenberg, Paris, no. 248/6332. Per Geneviève Claisse. Herbin: catalogue raisonné de l'oeuvre peint. Lausanne: Editions du Grand-Pont, Paris: Bibliothèque des arts, 1993, no. 322.[2] Oeuvres de l'école française moderne. Collection réunie par " L'Effort Moderne" (Leonce Rosenberg), Paris, L'Hotel de Ventes "de Roos" (sous la direction de A. Mak), Amsterdam, October 18, 1921,  no. 41: "Nature morte." [3] Label on verso.[4] Label on verso.[5] Acquired by May E. Walter from the exhibition 20th Century Art Exhibition and Sale: For the Benefit of the Postgraduate Center for Psychotherapy [NYU]. New York: Graham Gallery, 1960.
Galerie Neumann-Nierendorf, Berlin [1]; acquired by the Kunsthalle Mannheim , May 4, 1927 [2]; removed as "degenerate art" by the Reich Ministry for Public Enlightenment and Propaganda, Berlin, 1937 [2]; on consignment to Karl Buchholz, Berlin; to Buchholz Gallery (Curt Valentin), New York; acquired by The Museum of Modern  Art, New York, January 1941 (Gift of Curt Valentin).[1] See Hans-Jürgen Buderer, ed., Entartete Kunst - Beschlagnahmeaktionen in der Städtischen Kunsthalle Mannheim, 1937, exh. cat. Mannheim: Kunsthalle, 1987.[2] Ibid. Collection stamp on verso. Inventory no. 2318.[3] EK no. 6126: Komposition
Galerie Nierendorf, Berlin [1]. Karl Buchholz, Berlin; on consignment to Buchholz Gallery (Curt Valentin), New York, August 18, 1937 [2]; seized by the Alien Property Custodian, New York, May , 1944; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, November 1945 [3].[1] Artist's questionnaire, n.d., Collection files, Department of Drawings, The Museum of Modern Art, New York.  [2] Inventory no. 530 (Otto Dix, Two Heads). "Objects of art owned by Karl Buchholz," Vesting order no. 3711, NARA, Washington, DC.[3] Sale of property vested by Alien Property Custodian, lot #23.
Galerie Nierendorf, Berlin [1]; Karl Nierendorf (1889-1947), New York [2]; Estate of Karl Nierendorf, New York, 1947; sold to Alexander W. Pearlman (1914-2004), New York, March 17, 1954 [3]; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York (Gift of Samuel A. Berger), 1955. [1] Artist's questionnaire, Collection files, Department of Drawings, The Museum of Modern Art, New York.[2] Karl Nierendorf emigrated to New York in 1936. Included in the "International Watercolor Exhibition, The Art Institute of Chicago, April 28-May 30, 1938 (no. 40: Café).[3] See "Court Backs Art Sale," The New York Times, March 18, 1954.
Galerie Paul Rosenberg, Paris, by June 1926 [1]; purchased by Gottlieb Friedrich Reber (1880-1959), Lugano /Lausanne, 1926 [2], in his possession until at least 1932  [2]. [A. M. Bellanger, by 1937] [3]. Sold to James Johnson Sweeney (1900-1986),  New York/Houston, by 1939 [4]; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, February 1964.[1] Included in exhibition Exposition d'oeuvres récentes de Picasso, June-July 1926, no. 43 (Nature morte à la tête de plâtre).[2] See Carl Einstein, Die Kunst des XX. Jahrhunderts, Berlin : Propyläen-Verlag, 1926, p. 295.  List of plates, p. 560: "Komposition.  1925.  Lugano, Sammlung Reber." On loan from Reber to the following exhibitions: Masterpieces by 20th Century French Painters: 'L'Ecole de Paris, London, Alex Reid and Lefevre, London, January-February 1932, no. 15 (L'Atelier); Picasso, Galerie Georges Petit, Paris, June 16-July 30, 1932, no. 160 (L'Atelier); Picasso, Kunsthaus Zurich, September 11-October 30, 1932, no. 158 (Das Atelier).[3] Jean Sutherland Boggs, with Marie-Laure Bernadac and Brigitte Léal, eds., Picasso and Things, exh. cat. Cleveland: The Cleveland Museum of Art, 1992, pp. 218-219, no. 86.  [4] On loan from Sweeney to the exhibition Picasso: Forty Years of His Art, The Museum of Modern Art, New York, November 15, 1939-January 7, 1940, no. 192. See Dorothy Kosinski, "G. F. Reber: Collector of Cubism," Burlington Magazine (August 1991), p. 531 (Still Life with Plaster Head).
Galerie Pierre (Pierre Colle), ParisValentine Gallery (Valentine Dudensing), New York. Acquired from Pierre Colle, April 1937John S. Newberry, Detroit. Purchased from Valentine Gallery, April 1937 – 1960The Museum of Modern Art, New York. John S. Newberry Collection, 1960
Galerie Pierre (Pierre Loeb, 1897-1964), Paris; purchased by A. Conger Goodyear (1877-1964), New York, November 1938 [1]; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1955 (Gift of A. Conger Goodyear).[1] Collection files, Department of Painting and Sculpture, The Museum of Modern Art, New York. On loan from Goodyear to the following exhibitions: Picasso: Forty Years of His Art, The Museum of Modern Art, New York, November 15, 1939-January 7, 1940 and The Art Institute of Chicago, February 3-March 3, 1940 (no. 128); Collage, The Museum of Modern Art, New York, September 21-December 5, 1948 (no. 75); and Paintings from Private Collections, The Museum of Modern Art, New York, May 31-September 7, 1955.
Galerie Surréaliste, ParisGalerie Van Leer, Paris. By 1936Mr. and Mrs. John E. Abbott, New York. Purchased from Van Leer Gallery, 1936John McAndrew. Until 1940The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Purchased from John McAndrew , 1940
Gallagher made this image of an undersea creature by scratching and carving into thick paper. She has likened the process to the carving of scrimshaw, a practice dating from the nineteenth century in which whalers and other sailors would scratch intricate pictures and patterns into the bones, teeth, and tusks of marine animals.
Gallagher's labor–intensive paintings embed racial subtexts in otherwise abstract images. They Could Still Serve takes its title from an etching in Francisco de Goya's series The Disasters of War (1810-20), a caustic meditation on the brutality and futility of human warfare. "Bruised into a kind of caricature," as Gallagher puts it, the disembodied eyeballs in her work are reminiscent of lynchings and other "caprices" of inhumanity. The image suggests a fine line between comic book imagery and outright stereotype.
Galleria del Levante, Milan, by 1964 [1]; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1967 (John S. Newberry Fund).[1] Included in the exhibition Otto Dix, Galleria del Levante, Milan, May-June 1964 (no. 46: La bella Mally).
Gardens Media Project, a loose collective of students from the University of Cape Town, produced posters and ephemera for various political organizations, including affiliates of the United Democratic Front (UDF), a federation of democratic organizations and trade unions. In 1989 members created a series of screenprinted posters on the theme of workers rights. Printed at Community Arts Project, where much of the groups work was carried out, the prints have the look of black-and-white linocuts but in fact were made using scratchboard, a photocopier, and stencils.
Geezer is part of a large body of work by Lucas dedicated to Charlie George, a star player of one of the top London soccer clubs during the 1970s. Lucas grew up in the same gritty working-class neighborhood as George, who in the artist's youth represented dreams of stardom and escape. Here, in a portrait comprised primarily of collaged pizza-parlor advertisements, Lucas uses her relationship with the soccer star as a touchstone for a complicated investigation of identity, success, and marketing.While George is the ostensible subject of the portrait, the figure bears an uncanny resemblance to Lucas, whose work typically explores androgyny, the hybridity of personal identity, and double meanings. Indeed, Geezer can be understood as a kind of self-portrait connecting the artist's personal history with that of the soccer star's. However, Geezer is infused with a biting political critique as well. By rendering the face of the portrait from advertisements—the only legible identifying characteristic in the drawing is the logo of George's team, Arsenal—Lucas seems to speak to the commodification of bodies in sports, and in society generally. Not only are the fans' identities molded by their identification with sports stars, but those models to which they aspire are themselves just blank screens for the projection of logos. In this light, the letters "nanza," which emblazon the absolute center of the subject's forehead, stand as a poignant symbol for the fragmentary nature of the "bonanza" of success. For as much as Geezer celebrates Charlie George and represents dreams and their realization, it also depicts the underbelly of certain aspects of late-stage capitalism—a stance perfectly attuned to the tradition of political commentary in much collage, to which Lucas knowingly nods with this work.
George Grosz's Explosion transports the horrors of World War I home, to Berlin. With a fiery glow in the background, collapsing high-rise buildings pinwheel around a black vortex. Windows shatter and smoke pours into the nighttime sky. Slices of half-naked body parts, embracing couples, and shadowy faces appear amid the chaos brought about by man-made, not natural, disaster. Grosz welcomed the purge of old society in this and other paintings showing cities in the throes of destruction that he made after he was discharged from the German army, in spring 1917, as "permanently unfit."Multiple, shifting perspectives and intense color heighten the feelings of instability and danger, and demonstrate his reworking of the stylistic approaches of the Expressionists and Italian Futurists. In style and theme, Explosion also recalls the apocalyptic paintings of Ludwig Meidner, whose studio and weekly gatherings Grosz frequented while in Berlin, and the brilliantly colored urban landscapes of French painter Robert Delaunay.
Georges Hugnet (1906-1974), ParisRichard Feigen. Purchased from Hugnet, in 1958 or 59Burt Kleiner, Los Angeles. Purchased from FeigenRichard Feigen. Purchased from KleinerMr. and Mrs. Harold X. Weinstein. Purchased from FeigenThe Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift of Mr. and Mrs. Harold X. Weinstein, 1961
Georges Rouault is best known for his Christian imagery, his mythological subjects, and his depictions of everyday figures rendered in layers of brilliant, luminous color with thick, black outlines. In his paintings and prints, he commented on the human condition, contrasting the noble and the ignoble, the rich and the poor, the powerful and the meek. With his monumental tome Miserere, Rouault explored themes of suffering and redemption that are reflected in his work overall. Miserere contains fifty-eight illustrations, which were first made as watercolors and oil paintings and then transferred to copperplates by means of photogravure. Rouault reworked these plates repeatedly over two decades, using aquatint, etching, and engraving to achieve rich blacks and grays. Originally titled Miserere et Guerre (Miserere and War), this book, a collaboration with the artist's dealer Ambroise Vollard, was begun in 1914 but not published until after Vollard's death in 1939. The Bible, Christian theology, popular French songs, Greco-Roman mythology, and the tragic context of World War I all served as sources for the moralistic and spiritualist content of Rouault's images for this project, as well as for the short captions that comprise the text. The plate shown here, which mocks a soldier in a stiff collar, exemplifies Rouault's critique of the vanity and arrogance of those who pursue power. The artist's often unorthodox use of techniques, learned in part from the many master printers with whom he worked, enabled him to achieve highly expressive effects. While he experimented widely with color, his choice of black-and-white illustrations for Miserere seems particularly fitting for the subject, and these prints remain his most admired today. Until 1940, when Rouault returned almost exclusively to painting, he completed approximately three hundred sixty-five prints, nearly half of which were published in illustrated books.
Gerhard Richter is one of the foremost painters in postwar European art. Alternating between figurative and abstract approaches, his work intentionally defies stylistic categorization. He was first recognized in the early 1960s as co-founder, with Sigmar Polke and others, of Capitalist Realism, a group dedicated to the objective depiction of society in an increasingly commodity-oriented Germany. Photography was central to Richter's pictorial documentation and his rejection of the Expressionist painting popular at the time. In 1962 he began making paintings directly after photographs, family snapshots, or newspaper illustrations, aligning himself with a European manifestation of Pop art. But by constantly questioning modes of perception and artistic representation, he has given his work an element of Conceptual art as well. Richter began making prints in 1965 and has completed more than one hundred to date; he was most active before 1974, completing projects only sporadically since that time. He has explored a variety of photographic printmaking processes—screenprint, photolithography, and collotype—in search of inexpensive mediums that would lend a "non-art" appearance to his work. Although interested in the wide dissemination of imagery that printmaking offers, he has avoided the collaborative workshop prerequisites of the more traditional techniques. Portraiture has been an important genre for Richter, with Mao and Elisabeth II among the most haunting examples from this period. The ghostlike heads bleed off the sheets, fusing an aura of power and inaccessibility with a posterlike immediacy.Originally from TextEntryID 69385 (TextTypeID 127)removed from the third para:These three prints reveal the political undertones common in Richter's work of the late 1960s. His imagery of fighter planes reflects the World War II bombing of his native Dresden as well as the hotly debated topic of German rearmament raging in the national press at the time. The work's off-register printing simulates the hazy afterimage of mass-produced newspaper illustrations while also emphasizing the planes' sonic speed.
Gerhard Richter is one of the foremost painters in postwar European art. Alternating between figurative and abstract approaches, his work intentionally defies stylistic categorization. He was first recognized in the early 1960s as co–founder, with Sigmar Polke and others, of Capitalist Realism, a group dedicated to the objective depiction of society in an increasingly commodity–oriented Germany. Photography was central to Richter's pictorial documentation and his rejection of the Expressionist painting popular at the time. In 1962 he began making paintings directly after photographs, family snapshots, or newspaper illustrations, aligning himself with a European manifestation of Pop art. But by constantly questioning modes of perception and artistic representation, he has given his work an element of Conceptual art as well.Richter began making prints in 1965 and has completed more than one hundred to date; he was most active before 1974, completing projects only sporadically since that time. He has explored a variety of photographic printmaking processes—screenprint, photolithography, and collotype—in search of inexpensive mediums that would lend a "non-art" appearance to his work. Although interested in the wide dissemination of imagery that printmaking offers, he has avoided the collaborative workshop prerequisites of the more traditional techniques. These three prints reveal the political undertones common in Richter's work of the late 1960s. His imagery of fighter planes reflects the World War II bombing of his native Dresden as well as the hotly debated topic of German rearmament raging in the national press at the time. The work's off–register printing simulates the hazy afterimage of mass–produced newspaper illustrations while also emphasizing the planes' sonic speed. Portraiture has also been an important genre for Richter, with Mao and Elisabeth II among the most haunting examples from this period. The ghostlike heads bleed off the sheets, fusing an aura of power and inaccessibility with a posterlike immediacy.
Gerhard Richter is one of the foremost painters in postwar European art. Alternating between figurative and abstract approaches, his work intentionally defies stylistic categorization. He was first recognized in the early 1960s as co-founder, with Sigmar Polke and others, of Capitalist Realism, a group dedicated to the objective depiction of society in an increasingly commodity-oriented Germany. Photography was central to Richter's pictorial documentation and his rejection of the Expressionist painting popular at the time. In 1962 he began making paintings directly after photographs, family snapshots, or newspaper illustrations, aligning himself with a European manifestation of Pop art. But by constantly questioning modes of perception and artistic representation, he has given his work an element of Conceptual art as well. Richter began making prints in 1965 and has completed more than one hundred to date; he was most active before 1974, completing projects only sporadically since that time. He has explored a variety of photographic printmaking processes—screenprint, photolithography, and collotype—in search of inexpensive mediums that would lend a "non-art" appearance to his work. Although interested in the wide dissemination of imagery that printmaking offers, he has avoided the collaborative workshop prerequisites of the more traditional techniques. This print reveals the political undertones common in Richter's work of the late 1960s. His imagery of fighter planes reflects the World War II bombing of his native Dresden as well as the hotly debated topic of German rearmament raging in the national press at the time. The work's off-register printing simulates the hazy afterimage of mass-produced newspaper illustrations while also emphasizing the planes' sonic speed.Originally from TextEntryID 69523 (TextTypeID 127)waiting for editorial approval on changes in text before authorizing - j.maldonado - 9/21
Gertrude and Leo Stein, ParisGertrude Stein, Paris and San Francisco. 1913 - 1946Estate of Gertrude Stein (Alice B. Toklas). 1946 - 1967Mr. and Mrs. John Hay Whitney, New York. 1968 - 1983The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Estate of John Hay Whitney, 1983
Gertrude Stein, Paris and San Francisco. 1914 - 1946Estate of Gertrude Stein (Alice B. Toklas). 1946 - 1967Nelson A. Rockefeller, New York. 1968 - 1979The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Nelson A. Rockefeller Bequest, 1979
Gift from the artist to the Kunsthalle Hamburg, 1921 [1]; removed as "degenerate art" by the Ministry for Public Enlightenment and Propaganda, Berlin, August 21, 1937 [2]; [sold via exchange to Ferdinand Möller, Berlin];  to Buchholz Gallery (Curt Valentin), New York; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York (Gift of Curt Valentin), 1941.[1] Inscription "Schenkung an die Kunsthalle Hamburg" ["Gift to the Kunsthalle Hamburg"] verso, lower center sheet, black ink, artist's hand. One of seven drawings the artist gave to the museum to acknowledge its acquisition of Self Portrait, 1914 (Gordon 421). See letter Ernst Ludwig Kirchner to Gustav Schiefler Schiefler, May 20, 1921 (Wolfgang Henze, ed. Ernst Ludwig Kirchner / Gustav Schiefler: Briefwechsel 1910-1935/1938, Stuttgart and Zurich: Belser, 1990, pp. 185-186). [2] EK no. 5283: Straßenszene.
Gift of the artist to Heinrich Stinnes (1867-1932), Cologne, December 24, 1929; Estate of Heinrich Stinnes; auctioned at Gutekunst and Klipstein, Bern, June 20-22, 1938 (lot 551). Weyhe Gallery, New York, ?; to The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1941
Gift of the artist to the Kunstverein Jena, Germany, May 1918 [1]; removed as “degenerate art” by the Reich Ministry for Public Enlightenment and Propaganda, 1937 [2]; on consignment to Bernhard Böhmer, Güstrow, 1939. To Buchholz Gallery (Curt Valentin), New York; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1956.[1] One of 251 prints given in memory of the artist's friend and patron, Botho Graef (1857-1917). Collection stamp "Kunstverein / Jena" on verso. Inventory no. 98.[2] EK no. 13144: Badende
Gift of the artist to the Kunstverein Jena, Germany, May 1918 [1]; removed as “degenerate art” by the Reich Ministry for Public Enlightenment and Propaganda, 1937 [2]; sold via exchange to Ferdinand Möller, Berlin, 1940. Molly and Walter Bareiss, New York; to The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1957.[1] One of 251 prints given in memory of the artist's friend and patron, Botho Graef (1857-1917). Collection stamp "Kunstverein / Jena" on verso. Inventory no. 139.[2] EK no. 13145: Dresdener Straßenleben
Gill's photographs and installations have often taken books and the printed word as source material. In 1992, she began a series of pieces that appropriate and transform books, often rendering them indecipherable. For Where to draw the line, Gill hired a typist to copy on a manual typewriter five essays she wrote (and revised with the assistance of an editor) over the preceding year, titled "Women," "Work," "Snake," "House," and "Copycat." The typist was instructed to omit spaces, overtype any errors, and repeat words as necessary to fill nine long, scroll-like sheets.These highly personal texts are enormous, densely printed, and virtually illegible. In Gill's words, the work poses the question of "how much . . . we really give away" by putting such stories into the public sphere. Gill's text-based works allow her to experiment with the medium while maintaining a degree of privacy. They invite close looking, but remain inaccessible, and when seen from a distance they read as an abstract, variegated textile.
Girl Before a Mirror shows Picasso's young mistress Marie-Thérèse Walter, one of his favorite subjects in the early 1930s. Her white-haloed profile, rendered in a smooth lavender pink, appears serene. But it merges with a more roughly painted, frontal view of her face—a crescent, like the moon, yet intensely yellow, like the sun, and "made up" with a gilding of rouge, lipstick, and green eye-shadow. Perhaps the painting suggests both Walter's day-self and her night-self, both her tranquillity and her vitality, but also the transition from an innocent girl to a worldly woman aware of her own sexuality. It is also a complex variant on the traditional Vanity—the image of a woman confronting her mortality in a mirror, which reflects her as a death's head. On the right, the mirror reflection suggests a supernatural x-ray of the girl's soul, her future, her fate. Her face is darkened, her eyes are round and hollow, and her intensely feminine body is twisted and contorted. She seems older and more anxious. The girl reaches out to the reflection, as if trying to unite her different "selves." The diamond-patterned wallpaper recalls the costume of the Harlequin, the comic character from the commedia dell'arte with whom Picasso often identified himself—here a silent witness to the girl's psychic and physical transformations.Girl Before a Mirror. 1932
Glossy, bright, and geometric, this painting is part of a series by Morris that is inspired by the city of Los Angeles. Its title refers to the powerful Creative Artists Agency, a talent agency that is a key player in the invisible Hollywood network of actors, directors, and producers who are also the subjects of the artist's video Los Angeles (2004). The hexagonal structures are a visually complex interpretation of the web-like, convoluted power relationships that dominate the entertainment industry. Morris charts these connections to create a flashy, hard surface that reflects a culture of superficiality.
Gober finds his subject matter in American suburban life of the 1950s and 1960s—the period of his childhood—focusing on the artifacts of everyday life and on attitudes and mores, particularly those involving gender and religion. Here the artist appears in the guise of a bride. About the wedding dress, he has remarked, "There's no comparable costume for a man that symbolizes this moment...we've only created this outfit for women."
Goje made this print on the subject of reconciliation a year before South Africa's first democratic election, in which Nelson Mandela, the African National Congress candidate, was elected president. Both its title and imagery reflect the artist's optimism about reconciliation between black and white South Africans, represented by a handshake between a circular thatched Xhosa home and a Western-style suburban brick house.
Google Maps is a popular Internet-based mapping program that offers not only street maps but also photographic views of city streets; directions for walking, driving, and hiking; routing options via public transportation; and business locations. It also powers many applications and services offered by third parties. The unique upside-down teardrop design of the Google Maps Pin was created to be both recognizable and functional, precisely indicating a location without obscuring the area nearby. This ubiquitous digital icon bleeds into real life in the work of artists such as Aram Bartholl, who creates physical Google Maps Pins to mark sites in the material world.
Górka's striking treatment in this work contrasts greatly with the photographic realism of American posters for such Hollywood Western films. The widespread Polish fascination with the mythic themes of the American West continued into the late 1980s; the most famous Solidarity poster for the first free  elections in Poland, in 1989, featured Gary Cooper in his 1952 role as the sheriff in High Noon, carrying a ballot.
Gorky, who was largely self-taught, learned to draw by copying works he saw in museums and art publications. In the early 1930s, he made a series of drawings based on the tradition of écorché ("flayed" or "skinned" in French). This practice, dating to the Renaissance and popular in nineteenth-century French academic drawing, consists of rendering a figure's muscles and bones as they would appear under the skin. Gorky's adoption of écorché points simultaneously to his academic foundations, his interest in Surrealism, and his burgeoning proclivity toward abstraction. The swollen musculature in this drawing chronicles anatomy but also suggests nonspecific organic forms or pure pattern.
Gotham is one of the most successful typefaces of the early twenty-first century. Originally inspired by the lettering on Manhattan's Port Authority Bus Terminal sign, it was designed after Frere-Jones conducted an extensive study of New York City's vernacular lettering. A distillation of the "letters of paint, plaster, neon, glass and steel that figure so prominently in the urban landscape," as the typographers have said, Gotham has a familiar quality even though it is newly designed. The letterforms are simple and straightforward—an engineer's idea of "basic lettering."
Graham works within England's strong tradition of social documentary photography. He was one of the first photographers to make such pictures in color, bringing new life to a well–worn tradition. This picture, from his series Beyond Caring (1984–85), describes the boredom and despair of people seeking help in a social–service office in London. Graham himself was unemployed at the time and his visits to the offices to receive welfare benefits precipitated the project.The photograph's canted horizon suggests the disorienting effect of the impersonal office and the humiliating circumstance. The arrangement of figures and furniture within the picture, seen from a low angle with a visual entry point near the center, draws the viewer into the grim scenario. The composition was at least partly determined by the discretion Graham exercised in making it, although the large size of his medium–format camera precluded the possibility of his pictures being completely candid. The bright colors seduce the viewer while they contradict the facts of the scene, creating the tension of lived experience.
Graphisches Kabinett, I. B. Neumann and Guenther Franke, Berlin (until 1923), then Munich. [Likely since the early 1920s]J. B. Neumann (Jsrael Ber Neumann), New Art Circle (from 1923), New York. By 1930Kestner-Gesellschaft, Hanover. By 1931 [Likely an agent]Mrs. John D. Rockefeller, Jr., New York. Purchased in 1931 - 1935The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift of Abby Aldrich Rockefeller, 1935
Graphisches Kabinett J.B. Neumann, Berlin/Munich, by 1921; Museum Folkwang, Essen, 1929 [1]; removed as "degenerate art" by the Reich Ministry for Public Enlightenment and Propaganda, Berlin, 1937 [2]; on consignment to Karl Buchholz, Berlin, 1939; to Buchholz Gallery (Curt Valentin), New York, 1939; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, April 13, 1939.[1] See Hartwig Fischer, ed., 'Das schönste Museum der Welt,' Sammlung Folkwang bis 1933, Hartwig Fischer, ed., exh. cat. Essen: Folkwang Museum, 2010, p. 348. [2] EK no. 14421: Der verlorene Sohn
Graphisches Kabinett J.B. Neumann, Berlin/Munich, by 1921; Museum Folkwang, Essen, 1929 [1]; removed as "degenerate art" by the Reich Ministry for Public Enlightenment and Propaganda, Berlin, 1937 [2]; on consignment to Karl Buchholz, Berlin, 1939; to Buchholz Gallery (Curt Valentin), New York, 1939; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, April 13, 1939.[1] See Hartwig Fischer, ed., 'Das schönste Museum der Welt,' Sammlung Folkwang bis 1933, Hartwig Fischer, ed., exh. cat. Essen: Folkwang Museum, 2010, p. 348. [2] EK no. 3797: Erwartung des verlorenen Sohnes
Graphisches Kabinett J.B. Neumann, Berlin/Munich, by 1921; Museum Folkwang, Essen, 1929 [1]; removed as "degenerate art" by the Reich Ministry for Public Enlightenment and Propaganda, Berlin, 1937 [2]; on consignment to Karl Buchholz, Berlin, 1939; to Buchholz Gallery (Curt Valentin), New York, 1939; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, April 13, 1939.[1] See Hartwig Fischer, ed., 'Das schönste Museum der Welt,' Sammlung Folkwang bis 1933, Hartwig Fischer, ed., exh. cat. Essen: Folkwang Museum, 2010, p. 348. [2] EK no. 3798: Der verlorene Sohn unter den Schweinen
Graphisches Kabinett J.B. Neumann, Berlin/Munich, by 1921; Museum Folkwang, Essen, 1929 [1]; removed as "degenerate art" by the Reich Ministry for Public Enlightenment and Propaganda, Berlin, 1937 [2]; on consignment to Karl Buchholz, Berlin, 1939; to Buchholz Gallery (Curt Valentin), New York, 1939; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, April 13, 1939.[1] See Hartwig Fischer, ed., 'Das schönste Museum der Welt,' Sammlung Folkwang bis 1933, Hartwig Fischer, ed., exh. cat. Essen: Folkwang Museum, 2010, p. 348. [2] EK no. 3799: Die Rückkehr des verlorenen Sohnes
Graphisches Kabinett J.B. Neumann (Karl Nierendorf), Berlin [1]; sold to Kunstverein Halle, 1925 [2]. Richard L. Feigen, New York; given to The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1957.[1] Artist's questionnaire, Collection files, Department of Drawings, The Museum of Modern Art, New York. [2] Inscription on verso. Kassa-Buch des Halleschen Kunstvereins 1913-1915, Stadtarchiv Halle, Germany.
Graphisches Kabinett, Kunstsalon Maria Kunde, Hamburg (on consignment)Katherine S. Dreier (1877-1952), NY. Purchased from the artist, by 1951 [c. 1933-36 ?]The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Katherine S. Dreier Bequest, 1953
Great blue ovals collide against stiff trapezoids, twining yellow tendrils tie them all together: as abstract form, Dis Pair has a springy rhythmic dynamism. Yet it also applies the stylistic vocabulary of the comic strip to depicting a pair of shoes. Besides being wittily distorted and distended, these shoes are over ten feet high, using a strategy of enlargement prefigured in Claes Oldenburg's Pop sculpture; and Pop art also anticipated Murray's interest in the commonplaces of domestic life, which she paints on an undomestic, even heroic, scale. Murray dramatizes the beautiful ordinariness of familiar objects. "I paint about the things that surround me," she says, "things that I pick up and handle every day. That's what art is. Art is an epiphany in a coffee cup."Standing out from the wall in relief, the surface of Dis Pair suggests a stretched and rounded skin—perhaps these curving forms humorously evoke heads and faces, and their visual relationship the relationship of a human couple. The title of the work certainly puns on the slang word "dis," or "dis-respect," and also, more gravely, on "despair." The household bond described here must be strained, but the tension seems more everyday than tragic: the suspense in the airborne lift of these grand swelling forms, and in their taut interaction, is subverted by their humor and their clunky domesticity.Dis Pair. 1989-90
Grippo, one of the leading figures in Latin American Conceptualism, considered Life, Death, Resurrection to be one of the most important achievements of his career. In this work, he combined organic materials with found and sculpted objects to depict natural forms of energy, growth, and decay in a display that mimics a scientific experiment. Grippo made several versions of Life, Death, Resurrection; this is the only one that features all the elements of the work's first installation, in 1980. It includes a violin filled and broken by germinated corn; a series of lead forms, half of them broken by the germination of red beans; and a piece of found wood that has been attacked by worms. The work is an allegory of the collisions between life and art, materiality and energy, time and form, and intelligence and nature.
Growing up in East Germany, Georg Baselitz was isolated from the latest art developments in Western Europe. In 1956 he emigrated to West Berlin, where the dominant style was tachisme, a form of painterly abstraction that corresponded to late Abstract Expressionism in America. Baselitz rejected that style as decorative and instead evolved a vocabulary of disturbing figurative imagery that caused a scandal when it was exhibited. Eventually the figures in his paintings were depicted as fragmenting apart and soon thereafter were turned upside-down in what has become his hallmark. Baselitz's early experiences with printmaking began at a municipal workshop for artists in West Berlin. He started with etching and soon turned to woodcut. During a stay in Italy in the mid-1960s, he discovered sixteenth-century Mannerist prints and began a personal collection that is now well known. Having made nearly one thousand prints in the course of his career, Baselitz stands out for his direct engagement with technical processes. He has described the resistance of copperplates, woodblocks, and linoleum blocks as creative forces in his art and has referred to prints as having "symbolic power which has nothing to do with a painting." He is also known for distinctive printed surfaces created with oil paint rather than printer's ink. Woman on the Beach and Nude with Three Arms are examples, and these prints garnered much attention during the Neo-Expressionist movement of the late 1970s and 1980s, when linoleum cut and woodcut had a great resurgence. Baselitz's wife, Elke, often assists him with printing, using a press in his studio, although he also works with master printers.Originally from TextEntryID 69450 (TextTypeID 127)removed:He also tried the tonal "chiaroscuro" woodcut technique prevalent in that early period, here seen in an untitled example depicting a fragmented woodsman, one of the figure types he presented as modern heroes.
Growing up in East Germany, Georg Baselitz was isolated from the latest art developments in Western Europe. In 1956 he emigrated to West Berlin, where the dominant style was tachisme, a form of painterly abstraction that corresponded to late Abstract Expressionism in America. Baselitz rejected that style as decorative and instead evolved a vocabulary of disturbing figurative imagery that caused a scandal when it was exhibited. Eventually the figures in his paintings were depicted as fragmenting apart and soon thereafter were turned upside-down in what has become his hallmark. Baselitz's early experiences with printmaking began at a municipal workshop for artists in West Berlin. He started with etching and soon turned to woodcut. During a stay in Italy in the mid-1960s, he discovered sixteenth-century Mannerist prints and began a personal collection that is now well known. He also tried the tonal "chiaroscuro" woodcut technique prevalent in that early period. Having made nearly one thousand prints in the course of his career, Baselitz stands out for his direct engagement with technical processes. He has described the resistance of copperplates, woodblocks, and linoleum blocks as creative forces in his art and has referred to prints as having "symbolic power which has nothing to do with a painting." He is also known for distinctive printed surfaces created with oil paint rather than printer's ink. Woman on the Beach and Nude with Three Arms are examples, and these prints garnered much attention during the Neo-Expressionist movement of the late 1970s and 1980s, when linoleum cut and woodcut had a great resurgence. Baselitz's wife, Elke, often assists him with printing, using a press in his studio, although he also works with master printers.Originally from TextEntryID 69400 (TextTypeID 127)removed text, here seen in an untitled example depicting a fragmented woodsman, one of the figure types he presented as modern heroes
Growing up in East Germany, Georg Baselitz was isolated from the latest art developments in Western Europe. In 1956 he emigrated to West Berlin, where the dominant style was tachisme, a form of painterly abstraction that corresponded to late Abstract Expressionism in America. Baselitz rejected that style as decorative and instead evolved a vocabulary of disturbing figurative imagery that caused a scandal when it was exhibited. Eventually the figures in his paintings were depicted as fragmenting apart and soon thereafter were turned upside-down in what has become his hallmark.Baselitz's early experiences with printmaking began at a municipal workshop for artists in West Berlin. He started with etching and soon turned to woodcut. During a stay in Italy in the mid-1960s, he discovered sixteenth-century Mannerist prints and began a personal collection that is now well known. He also tried the tonal "chiaroscuro" woodcut technique prevalent in that early period, here seen in an untitled example depicting a fragmented woodsman, one of the figure types he presented as modern heroes. Having made nearly one thousand prints in the course of his career, Baselitz stands out for his direct engagement with technical processes. He has described the resistance of copperplates, woodblocks, and linoleum blocks as creative forces in his art and has referred to prints as having "symbolic power which has nothing to do with a painting." He is also known for distinctive printed surfaces created with oil paint rather than printer's ink. Woman on the Beach and Nude with Three Arms are examples, and these prints garnered much attention during the Neo-Expressionist movement of the late 1970s and 1980s, when linoleum cut and woodcut had a great resurgence. Baselitz's wife, Elke, often assists him with printing, using a press in his studio, although he also works with master printers.
Guardian was made during the summer of 1968 using images transferred from current issues of LIFE magazine. Inverted placement, layering, and significant variation in tone initially mask the fact that many of the images of people, animals, and objects are duplicated. Although Rauschenberg took to lithography reluctantly in the early 1960s, printmaking became for him "an artistic recording of an action as realistic and poetic as a brushstroke."
Gursky is from a generation of photographers who came to prominence in the 1980s and 1990s by challenging the primacy of painting through the scale and grandeur of their work. He takes full advantage of the possibilities of digital manipulation in building his images. Here we see a racetrack winding through a desert landscape in Bahrain.
Gustave Fayet [1865-1925. Painter and Redon collector], BéziersSold at Drouot-Montaigne, Paris. June 14, 1989 (lot no. 41)The Ian Woodner Family Collection, New York. Acquired from above - 2000 The Museum of Modern Art, New York. 2000.
Gustav Klimt (1862-1918), ViennaKlimt Estate / Emilie Fläge [Floege] (Klimt's friend, and executor of the estate), Vienna. 1918 - c. 1930Dr. Otto Kallir (1894-1978) / Neue Galerie, Vienna, and Galerie St. Etienne, New York. Acquired from Klimt Estate through Emilie Fläge, c. 1930 - 1957The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Acquired from Dr. Otto Kallir (Galerie St. Etienne), New York, with the Gertrud A. Mellon Fund, February 27, 1957 - 1978Serge Sabarsky Gallery, New York. Purchased from MoMA, June 26, 1978The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Purchased from Sabarsky, October 10, 1978
Gustav Schiefler (1857-1935), Hamburg; Estate of Gustav Schiefler, 1935; sold through Kornfeld & Klipstein, Bern, sale #121 (lot #743) to Frank Perls (1910-1975), Los Angeles, June 11, 1966. Heinz Berggruen/Contemporary Art Establishment, Zurich; sold to The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1968.
Guston painted Gladiators in a social-realist style favored by many left-leaning artists in the 1930s, a style that reflected in part the political and aesthetic influence of the Mexican muralist movement led by Diego Rivera, José Clemente Orozco, and David Alfaro Siqueiros. At the time he painted Gladiators, Guston was painting murals in New York as part of a Works Progress Administration (WPA) program. The theme of fighting children seen here is reworked from Work and Play, a mural the artist painted in Long Island City, New York.
Had he never made another film, Errol Flynn would still be remembered today for his spirited, pitch–perfect performance in Michael Curtiz and William Keighley's The Adventures of Robin Hood. As critic David Thomson has written, "Flynn does not deal in depth, but he has a freshness, a galvanizing energy, a cheerful gaiety (in the old sense) made to inspire boys." It was Curtiz who took Flynn and molded him into a swashbuckler; the two worked together on eleven films between 1935 and 1941, virtually all of which cast the star as a suave and fearless action hero. These are the roles for which Flynn is best remembered, and none is as near flawless as his Robin of Locksley. With Olivia de Haviland as Maid Marian (the third of her seven films with Flynn), glorious Technicolor photography by Tony Gaudio, Sol Polito, and W. Howard Green, a stirring musical score by Erich Wolfgang Korngold, and performances by some of Hollywood's finest supporting players—including Basil Rathbone, Claude Rains, Patric Knowles, Alan Hale, Eugene Pallette, and Una O'Connor, The Adventures of Robin Hood survives as one of the finest examples of pure entertainment to emerge from the Hollywood studio system.
Hall, disabled at an early age by polio, pioneered wheelchair racing when he participated in the Boston Marathon in 1975. At the time, disabled athletes who wanted to achieve greater speeds had to alter their cumbersome everyday wheelchairs. In 1978 Hall designed his first racing wheelchair and founded a new company, Hall's Wheels. There he made handcrafted wheelchairs, measured to fit each customer, that weighed between fourteen and sixteen pounds—about half the weight of the wheelchair he'd used in his first marathon.The Racing Wheelchair introduced innovations that have had an impact on users of every type of wheelchair. This example, designed in 1986, features a lightweight frame of aircraft-steel tubing, a speedometer, and a tachometer. The wheels, adapted from racing bicycles, are angled for optimal arm movement and enhanced speed. The red and black colors give it a sporty, sleek look. MoMA first showed Hall's Racing Wheelchair in the 1989 exhibition Designs for Independent Living, which presented outstanding examples of well-designed, mass-produced objects for the elderly and the physically disabled.
Hammons's art is a reclamation project of sorts; he revalues bits of street flotsam and other unwanted debris by assembling them in new combinations. High Falutin', one of his several works based on the basketball hoop, is a battered wood window frame atop a pole, crowned and fringed by ruffles of rubber tire, a subtly figural ensemble incongruously glamorized by fussy glass candelabra, which are wired to light up. The theme of light and energy reappears in the crinkled loop of wire around the frame, a cartoon electric current.The practice of working with found objects has an ancestry in Surrealism, and Hammons acknowledges the influence of Marcel Duchamp, among others, but he also remarks, "I feel it is my moral obligation to try to graphically document what I feel socially." The urban society to which he is so attuned is crucially inflected by the presence of African Americans, and if Hammons admires basketball, it is as a game of which African Americans have made an "art of improvisation," "a whole other thing—ballet, theater." High Falutin', which was originally named Spirit Catcher, also relates to African traditions of masks and other spiritually protective sculpture. "Art," Hammons has said, "is a way to keep from getting damaged by the outside world, to keep the negative energy away. Otherwise you absorb it."
Handwritten beneath the image of the figure on a bridge is the title of the work in German—"Geschrei"—and, in the lower right-hand corner, the phrase "Ich fühlte das grosse Geschrei durch die Natur" (I felt the great scream in nature). It is a quotation from an autobiographical text Munch had written some years earlier, in which he described an experience he had while walking along the road near his hometown, Kristiania (now Oslo). Munch made about thirty impressions of this print, some on colored paper or hand colored in watercolor, and some without the title and text. Because an image inked on a lithography stone is flipped in the printing process, lithographs based on preexisting images generally reverse the original. In this case, Munch inked the image in reverse so the printed sheet would have a composition identical to that of the painting.
Hans Goltz, Munich; Staatliche graphische Sammlungen, Munich, 1918 [1]; removed as “degenerate art” by the Reich Ministry for Public Enlightenment and Propaganda, 1937 [2]; on consignment to Karl Buchholz, Berlin; to Buchholz Gallery (Curt Valentin), New York; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1941.[1] Stamp "K. B. GRAPHISCHE SAMMLUNG" on verso, center sheet, brown ink. Inventory no. 320.[2] EK no. 15656: Zerstörung und Hoffnung
Hans Goltz, Munich; Staatliche graphische Sammlungen, Munich, 1920 [1]; removed as “degenerate art” by the Reich Ministry for Public Enlightenment and Propaganda, 1937 [2]; on consignment to Karl Buchholz, Berlin; to Buchholz Gallery (Curt Valentin), New York; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1941.[1] Collection stamp "K. B. GRAPHISCHE SAMMLUNG" on verso, center sheet, brown ink. Inventory no. 159.[2] EK no. 15652: Radierung
Hans Goltz, Munich; Staatliche graphische Sammlungen, Munich, 1920 [1]; removed as “degenerate art” by the Reich Ministry for Public Enlightenment and Propaganda, 1937 [2]; on consignment to Karl Buchholz, Berlin; to Buchholz Gallery (Curt Valentin), New York; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1941.[1] Collection stamp "K. B. GRAPHISCHE SAMMLUNG" on verso. Inventory no. 162.[2] EK no. 15655: Drehendes Haupt
Hans Goltz, Munich; to Heinrich Stinnes (1876-1932), Cologne, October 1920; Heinrich Stinnes Estate; sold through Gutekunst & Klipstein, Bern, June 20-22, 1938.Curt Valentin, New York, ?; to The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1942
Hans Poelzig made this drawing for a concert hall while he was the city architect of Dresden, a position he held from 1916 to 1920. A painter and set designer as well as an architect, he searched for personal and emotional architectural forms. Natural, organic, plantlike elements create a fanciful and romantic setting, and almost baroque ornamental patterns radiate from the stage, their rhythm evoking the music they were designed to house.
Harboring something of a foot fetish, Warhol frequently drew feet, and sometimes accompanied them with phallic objects—in this case, a vessel decorated with fruit or flowers. Warhol enlisted his friends, potential lovers, art dealers, and celebrities, including the novelist Christopher Isherwood, to serve as models.
Haring began his career in the early 1980s with graffiti drawings made in the subways and on the sidewalks of New York City. Cartoonish creatures were combined with highly stylized abstract patterning to create a dense, rhythmic carpet of imagery, and spaceships, hearts, crawling babies, and winged figures appeared frequently, as they do in this large, friezelike drawing. Its size evokes the artist's ephemeral public murals and bridges the gap between the art gallery and the street.
Harry Stevenson Southam, C. M. G., Ottawa, OntarioBignou Gallery, Paris. By 1939E. and A. Silberman Galleries, New YorkThe Museum of Modern Art, New York. Purchased from the Silberman Galleries through the Lillie P. Bliss Bequest, 1944
Harvey Quaytman often made his own paints and repeatedly experimented with a form consisting of crossed lines. According to the artist, the cruciform did not have a sacred or symbolic meaning; rather, he saw it as the logical product of the overlapping lines of squares and rectangles. Quaytman saw his work as small triumphs, "inch by inch and year by year, over the arbitrary chaos of visual life."
Haunted by the remaining destruction of Hiroshima twenty-two years after the atomic bomb was exploded there, Arata Isozaki has projected images of his megastructures onto a photomural of the razed city. In this image his constructions are also in ruins. It is as if he had rebuilt Hiroshima, and it had once again undergone destruction. Ruins provide an important metaphor for Isozaki: "They are dead architecture. Their total image has been lost. The remaining fragments require the operation of the imagination if they are to be restored."
Having grown up during the Harlem Renaissance of the 1920s, Romare Bearden devoted his life and art to redefining, as he said, "the image of man in terms of the Negro experience I know best." After painting as a Social Realist in the 1930s and 1940s, and then in a mode derived from Abstract Expressionism in the 1950s, Bearden ultimately found his own voice in the imaginative collages he made from 1964 on. Using a fragmented style inspired by the rhythms of jazz, he assembled magazine clippings into phantasmagorical invocations of the myths and rituals of black American life. Bearden did not take up printmaking seriously until the late 1960s, when he began to frequent the Printmaking Workshop, a non-profit studio run by his longtime friend, the artist and master printer Robert Blackburn. Over the next two decades he worked there and with other publishers and printers, eventually completing more than one hundred editioned prints in various techniques, as well as dozens of monotypes. Many of Bearden's prints, particularly his lithographs and screenprints, are based on existing collages and monotypes. With Blackburn's encouragement he also made some experimental collagraphs and intaglio prints that engage the collage process and printmaking in unusual and inventive ways. In The Train, for example, he recast a 1964 collage by adding new textures and colors. This was achieved by using mesh screens and photography to generate the photogravure plate, which was subsequently cut up so colored areas could be inked separately and reassembled jigsaw style for printing. The train of this print's title is a small detail at the upper left, but it nonetheless invokes larger issues of migration and segregation. As Bearden said, trains "could take you away and could also bring you to where you were. And in the little towns it's the black people who live near the trains."
Having started out in the early 1950s making Surrealist-inspired pictures of cataclysmic domestic scenes, Kawara left his native Japan in 1959 and, after sojourns in Mexico and France, settled in New York in 1965. During his time in Paris, Kawara experimented with a variety of styles, in the course of which he began making drawings based on calendars. These works prepared the ground for the conceptual leap he made shortly after his arrival in New York, resulting in a dramatic reorientation of his art and the integral programming of his production.On January 4, 1966, Kawara made the first of his "Today" series, of which the work in this collection, April 24, 1990, is an example. Each consists of a neatly hand-lettered canvas commemorating the day of its creation. The canvases are stored in specially made cardboard boxes containing pages from a local newspaper of the same day and from whatever place the peripatetic artist happened to find himself in when he made the painting. Kawara does not paint every day—in the first year of this series, he made 241 such works—nor are all his canvases identical; the background tone varies from grays to reds to blues, and the typeface changes as well....Kawara's idiosyncratically interconnected tabulations encompass both the small routines that measure out quotidian existence and the virtual infinity of millennia succeeding millennia. At either extreme, Kawara takes care to remind us how time's passage simultaneously isolates individuals in their own reality and binds them to collective reality. This divided consciousness is explicit in April 24, 1990. Like every other painting of its kind, it is the work of a man sitting alone at his desk. The physical encapsulation of the time it took to make (because of the layering of paint and the necessary drying periods, completion of each tablet- or tombstonelike work takes many hours), it adds to the series as a whole while it counts down, and so subtracts from, the unknown remainder of its creator's days.
Having worked as an impoverished poet for many years, Broodthaers began to make visual art in 1964, announcing rather provocatively, "I, too, wondered if I couldn't sell something and succeed in life. . . . The idea of inventing something insincere finally crossed my mind and I set to work at once." Broodthaers often used found or discarded materials, favoring eggshells, which are "without content other than the air." Using antique-looking furniture and organic materials, Broodthaers critiqued museum display and avoided modern products. In 1968, he created his own museum—called Museum of Modern Art—in his apartment, complete with labels and a catalogue.
Headscarf was on view in the exhibition Head Guard, organized by Ezri Tarazi at the Bezalel Academy in Jerusalem in 2003, which gathered ideas from designers, artists, and students for everyday head protection. Reminiscent of a hijab, Rosenfeld's Headscarf, made of stainless steel knitted ball chain and secured with knitting needles, provides protection to a Muslim woman without annulling her identity.
Heckel was stationed in Belgium with the Red Cross medical corps. This is one of several woodcuts in which he depicted the injured soldiers and sailors in his care. Its iconic format recalls the heroic soldiers in German propaganda posters, but instead of looking ahead with determination, this sailor turns away and lowers his eyes in resignation. His head is placed against a white cruciform shape, implying martyrdom.
Heinrich Kirchhoff (1874-1934), Wiesbaden, by 1917 [1]; by inheritance to Antonie Kirchhoff, Wiesbaden, 1934. Allan Frumkin Gallery, Chicago, by 1956 [2]; sold to New Gallery (Eugene Victor Thaw), New York, by 1958 [3]; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1958 (Gift of Mr. and Mrs. Eugene Victor Thaw).[1] W. Müller-Wulckow. "Die Sammlung Kirchhoff in Wiesbaden," Das Kunstblatt vol. 1, no. 4 (1917), p. 117. Reproduced with the title "Aus Neu-Guinea" [From New Guinea]. Included in the exhibition "Privatsammlung Kirchhoff," Wiesbaden, Kunstmuseum Wiesbaden, February 1-April 1, 1917. [2] "Emil Nolde," Allan Frumkin Gallery, Chicago, April 2-May 4, 1956. [3] "Exhibition of Prints by Kirchner and Nolde," The Minneapolis Institute of Arts [organized by the Museum of Modern Art, New York], February 14 - March 31, 1958. Lender: The New Gallery, New York.
Heinrich Stinnes (1867-1932), Cologne, December 11, 1920; Heinrich Stinnes Estate; sold through Hollstein & Puppel, Berlin, November 11-12, 1936 (lot 31). E. Erni, Basel, ?. Ernst Beyeler, Basel; to The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1951
Heinrich Stinnes (1867-1932), Cologne; Estate of Heinrich Stinnes; sold through Gutekunst and Klipstein, Bern, June 20-22, 1938 (lot 634).Samuel A. Berger, New York; to The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1954.
Heinrich Stinnes (1867-1932), Cologne; Heinrich Stinnes Estate; sold through Gutekunst & Klipstein, Bern, June 20-22, 1938 (lot 22); to Ernst Beyeler, Basel; to William S. Lieberman, New York, 1950; to The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1951
Here Bove has devised a system in which beads are laboriously attached at one-centimeter intervals. The process of hand crafting ensures that the work "is not perfect," the artist has said, and "the passage of time is marked through the process of its making." Silver Compass is meant to be installed facing due north, prioritizing an orientation to Earth rather than to any built environment.
Here Celmins has combined mezzotint (a tonal etching technique that produces velvety gradations from deep black to stark white) with drypoint, which she used to sharpen the details. Composed from two equal-sized etching plates, the print—like much of Celmins's work—makes its construction evident, creating a dynamic between its uncanny realism and its obvious assembly by the artist. Celmins is known for paintings and works on paper that depict expansive areas of the natural environment (such as ocean, desert, and space) based on photographs and newspaper clippings she began collecting decades ago. The starry night sky is a theme that she has returned to again and again, using a variety of labor-intensive techniques carefully chosen for their unique characteristics. The Museum owns more than forty works by Celmins in various mediums. Because her techniques are so labor intensive, Celmins releases new work infrequently; the acquisition of Starfield is a significant updating of the collection.
Here Gonzalez-Torres has imbued common utilitarian objects—lightbulbs strung together—with poetic significance. The cords, like two lives, are intertwined. The life-span of the bulbs, like that of a person, is of a particular duration and will ultimately burn out. The artist said, "I don't necessarily know how these pieces are best displayed. I don't have all of the answers—you [the owner] decide how you want it done. Whatever you want to do, try it. This is not some Minimalist artwork that has to be exactly two inches to the left and six inches down. Play with it, please. Have fun. Give yourself that freedom. Put my creativity into question...."
Here Johns revisits a composition and creates something almost entirely new from it. Flags represents an experiment in perception: staring at the small circle in the center of the top image produces an afterimage of red, white, and blue over the bottom gray image. Then, working with leftover, rejected prints from the edition of Flags, Johns created Flags II, a highly expressive variation on the analytical approach of the initial print.
Here Klee has portrayed an artist as tightrope walker—an elongated stick figure with bent knee and outstretched arms. The figure strikes a precarious balance by adjusting the round balls or weights it holds. This set of lines and shapes, including the steps and yellow platform, can also be read as a face—the balls form eyes and the bent leg becomes a nose. Though painted, this linear composition embodies Klee's definition of drawing: "A line going for a walk."
Here Li conflates genders and ages as he superimposes the image of an elderly neighbor's face over his own, straining to match his expression to hers.  Face I is part of a series of videos in which the artist has made use of his own face to probe varying psychological states, evoke the passage of time, and record the impact of memory.
Here Ludwig Meidner, seen in a self-portrait in the foreground, beholds the city with wide-eyed glee. A radiant moon illuminates blocky apartment buildings and outlines smoking factory chimneys, while structures with jagged, crystalline roofs rise from the earth below. Meidner highlights the anonymous and utilitarian aspects of the city, the very aspects that distinguished it from the small town where he grew up. Later recalling the hours he spent with friends wandering Berlin at night, he wrote, "We were 28 years old then and had a lot of endurance, which had not even run out by the time the sun came up. . . . We were so much in love with the city."This drawing dates from 1912, when Meidner enjoyed his first successes in Berlin. At this time, he made a series of pictures chronicling his experiences of the city, some of which became known as "apocalyptic paintings."
Here Miró applied paint to an unevenly primed canvas in an unorthodox manner—pouring, brushing, and flinging—so that the paint soaked into the canvas in some places while resting on the surface in others. On top of this relatively uncontrolled application of paint, he added schematic lines and shapes planned in preparatory studies. The bird or kite, shooting star, balloon, and figure with white head may all seem somehow familiar, yet their association is illogical. Miró once said that The Birth of the World describes "a sort of genesis," an amorphous beginning out of which life may take form.
Here, the front facade of a house in an apparently typical American suburb has been replaced by glass, and a piece of mirror divides this otherwise very ordinary house into public and private sections. In this situation, the inhabitants of the dwelling would be visible through the enlarged picture window, but they themselves could gaze at the environment and activity outside. Alteration to a Suburban House is a seminal work of both art and architecture, raising questions about transparency and the boundaries between public and private and inside and outside using the format of the architectural model. Together with the reflections on repetition and banality typical of his early work, Graham introduced a critique of the modernist trope that the literal transparency of glass in architecture would lead to social transparency.
High on the wall and decidedly out of reach, a barred window reveals an illusory glimpse of radiant blue sky. Gober transforms the gallery into a prison cell, taunting viewers with the semblance of a landscape beyond and provoking a desire to escape. At once familiar and uncanny, Gober's work is based on memory: "Most of my sculptures have been memories remade, recombined, and filtered through my current experiences." This sculptural installation also alludes to the Renaissance conception of a painting as a window, once the premise of representational picture-making.
Hiob (Job)b is a tale of the combative relationship between the sexes, based in part on some of the characters from Kokoschka's first play, Sphinx und Strohmann (The sphinx and the strawman, 1907), and even more loosely on the Book of Job. Kokoschka planned to use it as his contribution to the artist Franz Marc's unrealized plans for an illustrated Bible. The illustrations show Kokoschka turning to a naturalistic style, and pulse with an energy suited to the unpredictable narrative. In Kokoschka's burlesque interpretation of the biblical story, man is tested by woman, not God. The artist inserts many autobiographical elements of his passionate but ill-fated affair with Alma Mahler, who had left him and shortly thereafter married architect Walter Gropius. Kokoschka appears as Job—in this version crazed and cuckolded. He loses his head to Anima, a female soul who might also be the manifestation of his own ego. At the end, she kills him and is revealed to be Eve. In 1917, the same year Paul Cassirer in Berlin published this book, Kokoschka directed the play's premiere in Dresden. He relied on the vision of the events he developed in his prints, and transposed the final illustration from the book directly onto the stage.
Holstad's varied art practice—drawing, performance, installation, and sculpture—is united in its homespun, crafty aesthetic and labor–intensive techniques that evoke nostalgia and escape. In his ongoing Erasurehead series, Holstad alters newspaper images to inject them with ironic social commentary. By erasing and doctoring them, Holstad "undoes" images from the popular press, configuring ghoulish and often pathetic versions of the original figures.
Holzer's Truisms have become part of the public domain, displayed in storefronts, on outdoor walls and billboards, and in digital displays in museums, galleries, and other public places, such as Times Square in New York. Multitudes of people have seen them, read them, laughed at them, and been provoked by them. That is precisely the artist's goal. The Photostat, Truisms, seen here presents eighty-six of Holzer's ongoing series of maxims. Variously insightful, aggressive, or comic, they express multiple viewpoints that the artist hopes will arouse a wide range of responses. A small selection of Truisms includes: "A lot of professionals are crackpots"; "Abuse of power comes as no surprise"; "Bad intentions can yield good results"; and "Categorizing fear is calming."Holzer began creating these works in 1977, when she was a student in an independent study program. She hand-typed numerous "one liners," or Truisms, which she has likened, partly in jest, to a "Jenny Holzer's Reader's Digest version of Western and Eastern thought." She typeset the sentences in alphabetical order and printed them inexpensively, using commercial printing processes. She then distributed the sheets at random and pasted them up as posters around the city. Her Truisms eventually adorned a variety of formats, including T-shirts and baseball caps.
Hooded Klan figures first appeared in Guston's works after one of his Los Angeles murals was vandalized by the Ku Klux Klan in 1933. Of these figures, Guston said, "They are self-portraits. I perceive myself as being behind the hood. . . . The idea of evil fascinated me . . . I almost tried to imagine that I was living with the Klan. What would it be like to be evil?"
Hopper painted this interior during a stay in a boarding house in Rockland, Maine, where his interest was caught by the parlor—a cluttered room whose furniture included a pump organ, a heavy carved chair, and busy patterned carpets, all in an old-fashioned Victorian style. The parlor was traditionally a room for entertaining guests, but Hopper showed this one as empty, abandoned by its occupants. Like the home from the same era pictured in his painting House by the Railroad, the room stands as a symbol of an earlier time, one out of sync with a quickly modernizing America.
Hugo Perls (1886-1977), Berlin, 1914 [1]; acquired by Hans Purrmann (1880-1966), Berlin, Florence and Zurich, 1916. Sold to Walter Feilchenfeldt, Zurich; sold to Paul Rosenberg Gallery, New York; sold to Betsey Cushing Whitney and John Hay Whitney, New York, 1948 [2]; given to The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1955.[1] Hugo Perls, Warum ist Kamilla schön?, Munich: List, 1962, p. 80. Acquired in Berlin. Before Perls's acquisition the painting was included in the exhibition Second Post-Impressionist Exhibition, Grafton Galleries, London, October 5 - December 31, 1912, no. 37 ("Les Poissons"). Lender: "Madame M."[2] Included in the exhibition Henri Matisse: Retrospective Exhibtion of Paintings, Drawings, and Sculpture, Philadelphia Museum of Art, April 3-May 9, 1948 (no. 24: "Collection John Hay Whitney, NY.").
I am afraid of silenceI am afraid of the darkI am afraid to fall downI am afraid of insomniaI am afraid of emptinessIs something missing?Yes, something is missing and always will be missingThe experience of emptinessTo missWhat are you missing?NothingI am imperfect but I am lacking nothingMaybe something is missing but I do not know and therefore do not sufferEmpty stomach empty house empty bottleThe falling into a vacuum signals the abandonment of the mother
Ida Bienert (1870-1965), Dresden, by 1933 [1]; Estate of Ida Bienert, 1965; sold to Marlborough Gallery, London, July 30, 1968 [2]; acquired by the McCrory Corporation (Meshulam Riklis), October 31, 1969; The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1983 (The Riklis Collection of McCrory Corporation).[1] See Will Grohmann, Die Sammlung Ida Bienert, Dresden, Potsdam: Müller & I. Kiepenheuer, 1933, no. 71. See also Heike Biedermann, “Ida Bienert – Avantgarde als Lebensgefühl,” Heike Biedermann, Ulrich Bischoff and Mathias Wagner, eds., Von Monet bis Mondrian: Meisterwerke der Moderne aus Dresdner Privatsammlungen der ersten Hälfte des 20. Jahrhunderts. Exh. cat. Dresden: Staatliche Kunstsammlungen, 2006, p. 76[2] Included in the exhibition Moholy-Nagy, Marlborough Fine Art, London, September 1968 (no. 9).
Ide Collar, one of Outerbridge's most iconic photographs, was also his first advertising assignment, and was published in Vanity Fair magazine the year after it was made. This was a period when some photographers were intent on establishing their medium as a fine art, and would have frowned on its use for commercial work. Outerbridge embraced both possibilities. His dramatic use of light and dark, his paring down of objects to basic forms, and the contrast of the geometric checkerboard with the curving men's shirt collar demonstrate his stylistic engagement with the art of the time.
"I do not recognize the limits where painting ends and sculpture begins." So said Smith, who, in making Australia, used thin rods and plates of steel—simultaneously delicate and strong—to paint in space. Like a painting, Australia must be seen frontally if its form is to be grasped. It has been identified as an abstraction of a kangaroo, and its lines have that animal's leaping vitality. Though he began his career as a painter, Smith was inspired to make welded metal sculptures in 1930 when he saw those made by Pablo Picasso and Julio González.
If Dada, as claimed by the Dadaists, was a noisy alarm that woke up modern art from merely aesthetic slumber, then this Picabia drawing shows us how the alarm was sounded. It is the wiring diagram of a Dada alarm clock (made in Switzerland in 1919) which historically plots the flow of the current of modern art, from Ingres to 391, Picabia's own Dada magazine. For the nonmechanically minded, some words of explanation as to how this machine works: To the left we see a battery in cross section, with the electircal current moving in waves between the positive and negative poles, properly represented: the former in black, the latter in white (and with the ladderlike pattern that conventionally associates the negative with neutral or ground). French modernism is attracted to the stable, negative pole (and therefore to tradition), and rises historically until it reaches (with the help of Walter Arensberg, patron to French artists in New York) the rectangular transformer that bears the Dada name. Around the top of the active, positive (and therefore antitraditional) pole is an international cluster of innovative early twentieth–century artists, headed (of course) by Picabia himself. This positive pole directly connects with the Dada clock. The negative pole of French modernism, however, has to pass through the Dada transformer before it can be wired up to that inner circle. (Even then the wiring job looks amateur and not entirely convincing, but apparently it works.) When thus connected, the circuit is completed; the clock can start ticking, and the bell that was made in Paris and New York can begin to sound.The drawing was made for the "Anthologie Dada" issue (May 1919) of the Zurich magazine Dada, edited by Tristan Tzara, where it was reproduced on pink paper by the printer Julius Heuberger, who was sent to prison for his anarchist activities during the preparation of the magazine. On its inside cover was reproduced a Picabia drawing called Réveil matin, made by dismembering an alarm clock and printing its parts in ink. After previously having mainly used automobiles as the source of his machine images, Picabia shifted (appropriately) to clocks when he moved to Switzerland; hence the form of this drawing too. Its subject is by no means unique. Indeed, charts like this became a favorite Dada pastime just after the war, and served three main functions: to assert the superiority of Dada among contemporary movements; to clarify the progenitors and sympathizers of Dada; and to establish hierarchies within Dada itself, as quarrels about priority and sympathizers of Dada; and to establish hierarchies within Dada itself, as quarrels about priority and importance developed once the movement became established. The first such chart, Picabia's Construction moléculaire, was published in the first Zurich issue (February 1919) of 391. It listed only New York and Paris Dadaists. This one, published three months later, affirms Picabia's alliance with the Zurich Dadists, listing as it does Dadaists from all three centers within the clock face.Obviously, then, this is an interpretation as well as a document of history, drawing as it does a highly selective diagram of the history of modern art: a history, in fact, not of modernism itself but rather of what the critic Frank Kermode calls neomodernism, the antitraditional and antiformalist branch of modernism, intimated by Futurism, that Dada properly began. The history recounted in this drawing justifies the kind of modernism that it itself pioneered.
"I like money on the wall. Say you were going to buy a $200,000 painting. I think you should take that money, tie it up, and hang it on the wall." — Andy Warhol, 1975By the early 1960s, Warhol was pursuing a reputation as a fine artist. Roll of Bills registers this transition. Its soft and expressive hatching contrasts with the simple contours of his earlier line drawings. It is at once a master drawing and an unmistakable example of Pop art—the bills are larger than life, distinctively American, mass-produced, and utterly familiar. Shortly after Warhol made this work, he abandoned drawing for over a decade.
"I'm looking for the images that are not in the dictionary," Baldessari has said. "I like to confound people with something completely simple, artful, and on the other hand create a very complex, murky, troublesome piece." The seven found photographs that form High Flight "are about something transcendent, something like the Freudian superego, something above, godlike, the ideal." The inverted–T form references a crucifix and projects the image upward.In the second photograph from the top, a man hangs, unsupported, high above a landscape. In the bottom row are underwater scenes whose figures are not subject to gravity, despite their position at the base of the work. The central image of five synchronized swimmers in a graceful ring is flanked by a reversed and repeated image of a diver sitting among fish. Baldessari concentrates on opposites with these flopped images, which are tinted orange and blue—complementary colors that he associates, he has said, with danger and with the ideal, respectively. While Baldessari's works often brim over with significance and associations, the artist frustrates any attempts to find definitive, closed meaning.
Imperfection and roughness are part of type history: in the predigital era, wood and metal letterforms wore down unevenly, and randomized differences were inevitable; truly consistent letterforms only became possible with digitized type. FF Beowolf brings uncertainty back to typography: it features a randomization feature in its code dictating that its forms change shape every time they are printed, so no letter will look the same twice. "A certain roughness or varying unevenness is quite pleasing to the eye," van Rossum has said. " . . . For reading, sameness is not necessary: we can read handwritten text, type superimposed on flickering TV images. The sameness of type seems an arbitrary thing that we can do away with in certain cases." In order to achieve this effect, they substituted the programming commands "lineto" and "curveto" in the PostScript code (PostScript is a computer program that describes what the outlines of letterforms are designed to look like) with their own command "freakto." "Freakto" causes a letter to be randomly generated with erratic outlines.
In 1895 Otto Wagner, the leading Viennese architect of his time, declared: "The only possible point of departure for our artistic creation is modern life." As shown in this drawing, Wagner's design for the Ferdinandsbrücke, a bridge named in honor of Archduke Francis Ferdinand, is one of his frankest expressions of the techniques of modern engineering. The bridge's steel truss spans the Danube Canal in a low, broad arch. Decorating the naked steel structure are imperial emblems—coats of arms, wreaths, and garlands—particularly appropriate for Vienna, which was the capital of the Austro-Hungarian empire at the turn of the century.Wagner argued for simplicity and a new "realist" style, which implied that designers should use modern materials and clear methods of construction. He gave shape to his ideas in the many buildings and projects he designed in Vienna, as the city expanded outside its medieval boundaries. Although the Ferdinandsbrücke was not built according to his design, Wagner's prolific output and progressive ideas influenced an entire generation and firmly established him as one of the forefathers of modern architecture.
In 1906 and 1907 Picasso worked on many drawings and sketches for Les Demoiselles d'Avignon, his most ambitious work to that point. This small, unstretched canvas—one of Picasso's preparatory oil sketches—provides a window into the artists thought process in conceptualizing Demoiselles. The seven figures in the curtained room of a brothel include two male figures—clients, perhaps: a sailor at center and a medical student standing at left, holding a skull. Neither of these figures is present in the final painting; Picasso shifted the composition so that the women confront the viewer directly.
In 1908, Benton studied art in Paris, where he encountered many members of the European avantgarde. Though he experimented with abstraction upon his return to the United States, he later declared himself an "enemy of modernism. After becoming involved with Marxism in New York City, where he taught in the 1920s and early 1930s, he developed a slightly distorted, mannered style, in which he created idealized representations of the rural American experience (such as Homestead). Influenced by the socially conscious murals of Diego Rivera, whom he had met in Paris, Benton began to take on mural commissions in 1930; for his first project, at The New School for Social Research in New York, he worked alongside Mexican muralist José Clemente Orozco, who was also painting a fresco for the school.
In 1909 the Viennese art historians Hans and Erica Tietze asked the twenty-three year-old Kokoschka to paint a marriage portrait for their mantelpiece. Mrs. Tietze recalled that she and her husband were painted individually, a fact suggested by their separate poses and gazes. Kokoschka used thin layers of color to create the hazy atmosphere surrounding the couple, and added a sense of crackling energy by scratching the paint with his fingernails. The Museum bought this painting from the Tietzes in 1939, just one year after the couple immigrated to New York.
In 1911 Wright began to experiment with prefabrication in hundreds of drawings, culminating in the publication of American System-Built Houses. The plans in this folio illustrate different ways of configuring standardized building components that were to be precut in an off-site factory. His system incorporated built-in storage and work surfaces in the kitchens, which he conceived as part of the prefabricated whole. Despite a marketing campaign, there was little interest in the scheme, and very few of the proposed plans were realized.
In 1915, Erik Gunnar Asplund and Sigurd Lewerentz, now recognized as two of Sweden's leading twentieth-century architects, won a competition to expand the South Stockholm Cemetery. The commission would span their entire careers, reflecting stylistic developments and shifts over a twenty-five-year period. Asplund's early sketch of the Woodland Chapel, which he was directly commissioned to design, reflects the influence of Swedish Romanticism. His proposal—"a synthesis of temple and hut," according to the architectural historian Caroline Constant—was directly inspired by a vernacular cottage in Liselund, Denmark, which he visited on his honeymoon in 1918. The chapel is set in a pine forest. A path leads through the wood to the entrance, where the dominant form is a steeply pitched shingle roof, a massive shape like a truncated pyramid supported by columns. The deep portico continues the darkness of the forest. Only when the doors to the chapel are open is the visitor presented with a light-filled interior. This preliminary sketch has a childlike quality, but nevertheless captures the essence of the building's strong geometric forms. It also reflects Asplund's initial interest in making the form of the chapel follow the terrain, so that where the land dips it exposes a visible and directly accessible basement level. He later changed this design in order to reinforce the cubic volume of the chapel itself.
In 1919 Popova described painting as a "construction," the building blocks of which were color and line. In this work, brightly colored, irregularly shaped planes are layered against a neutral background. The curved bottom edge of a gray shape emerging from beneath a red triangle and a white trapezoid suggests three-dimensionality, while the vibrant colors and jutting edges that seem to extend beyond the frame evoke energetic movement. Painterly Architectonic is one of a series of works Popova created between 1915 and 1919 in response to Kazimir Malevich's Suprematist paintings. Her definition of painting as a constructive process also recalls her engagement with the materially based abstraction of fellow Russian Vladimir Tatlin, in whose teaching studio she worked.
In 1921, a famine in the Volga region of Soviet Russia threatened the lives of millions of peasants, and stories of cannibalism and other horrors circulated in the West, prompting Kollwitz to make this lithograph. Gaunt cheeks and sunken eyes give an emaciated man a skeletal appearance, while hands circle around him offering help. Kollwitz gives the tragedy a human face and urges her compatriots to lend their support.This poster was published as part of the relief efforts of the Internationale Arbeiterhilfe (International Worker's Aid), a Communist-backed organization founded in August 1921 as a response to Vladimir Lenin's call for help from the international proletariat. Some versions came with with the exhortation "Helft Russland" (Help Russia) written near the top. Kollwitz's image circulated widely in Europe and the United States.
In 1921 Häring moved to Berlin, where he briefly shared an office with Ludwig Mies van der Rohe. In 1926 they founded Der Ring, an architecture organization that included several German modernists. Both Mies and Häring believed in a return to basic principles of architecture, but while Mies designed simple and universal spaces, Häring believed in the primacy of functionalism and sought to create buildings tailored to very specific programmatic requirements. According to his theory of Organic Functionalism, architectural form must be discovered rather than imposed, and should grow from the function of the building.  Garkau Farm, completed in 1925, was Häring's first major work, and its unusual curvilinear form caused a sensation. This drawing shows the farmhouse, although in the end only the cowshed and barn were built. It demonstrates the range of coloristic expression in the work of architects in the 1920s, long concealed by black-and-white reproductions of their drawings.
In 1921, Sheeler and Strand collaborated to make Manhatta, considered to be the first American avant-garde film. Inspired by Walt Whitman's poem "Mannahatta," which is quoted in one of the intertitles, the film portrays life in New York City in sixty-five nonnarrative shots. The sequences display one epic day in Lower Manhattan, beginning with a ferry approaching the city in early morning and ending with a sunset view from a skyscraper. Shot from extreme camera angles, the film captures the dynamic qualities of the new metropolis.
In 1922 the First Russian Art Exhibition in Berlin first exposed Moholy-Nagy (then living in Germany) and Western European audiences in general to the extensive artistic experimentation that had taken place in Russia after the revolution of 1917. This work illustrates Moholy-Nagy's commitment to the ideas of Russian avant-garde artists such as Kazimir Malevich, whose aesthetic theory, known as Suprematism, espoused "the rediscovery of pure art, which, in the course of time, had become obscured by the accumulation of things," Malevich wrote. Moholy-Nagy interpreted Russian artistic ideas within the context of the Bauhaus (he became a faculty member in 1923) and incorporated aspects of them into his teaching. In this work, titled "Suprematistic" to acknowledge the influence of Malevich, the painted surface—no longer bound by the rules of traditional pictorial perspective—provides an opportunity for what Moholy-Nagy called "the primal human reaction to color, light and form."
In 1922, upon discovering the Cubist paintings of Pablo Picasso, Georges Braque, and Juan Gris in the window of a Paris gallery, Murphy told his wife, "If this is painting, then this is what I want to do." Soon after, he ended his career as a landscape architect and turned to painting. In Wasp and Pear, Murphy combined an abstract background with an anatomically detailed but highly stylized wasp, pear, leaf, and honeycomb. Murphy credited "the large technically drawn and colored charts of fruits, vegetables . . . [and] insects" in a classroom where he had studied during his military training as his inspiration. He painted only fourteen known works, seven of which remain.
In 1923 Bolotowsky moved from Constantinople to New York, where he studied painting at the National Academy of Design. Like Burgoyne Diller and other of his contemporaries, Bolotowsky began to work in an abstract mode after first seeing Piet Mondrian's paintings, in 1933. His gridded compositions are, he said, a "byproduct of the influence of Mondrian . . . except that the result visually is not the same." One striking difference is the tondo format of this canvas, common in the artists work; he made his first tondo painting by stretching a canvas across the rim of a wagon wheel. A longtime instructor of art, Bolotowsky spent 1946–48 at Black Mountain College in North Carolina, where he taught painting and drawing and served as acting director during Josef Albers's sabbatical.
In 1923 more than 100,000 visitors flocked to the first Salon des Arts Ménagers (Exhibition of Household Arts) in Paris to admire modern kitchens, new vacuum cleaners, and other domestic innovations. The aims of the salon were both educational and commercial, in keeping with similar fairs that were being established in other European centers at the time. This poster was commissioned for the 1928 salon by a society promoting the development of the French gas industry. By dramatically highlighting the gas valve, Bernard focused attention on the simple gesture required to release gas for purposes of cooking, heating, and refrigeration.
In 1926 van Doesburg, with artists Jean Arp and Sophie Taeuber, obtained the commission to refurbish the interior of a mid-eighteenth-century building to create Café Aubette—a large restaurant with a cinema and dancehalls. A painter as well as an architect, van Doesburg used this project to explore his theory of Elementarism, which built upon the concepts of Neoplasticism developed by the de Stijl movement of Dutch abstract artists. In addition to flat planes and rectilinear configurations, Elementarism employed inclined planes and relief to activate compositions. Van Doesburg's schemes for the interior walls of Café Aubette were based on a grid of predominantly gray planes, with vibrant panels in primary colors. Plaster was used to form a relief pattern between panels. Merging architecture and design with painting, van Doesburg also designed ashtrays for Café Aubette, and even the lettering used for the neon-lit facade and other signs.
In 1928 architects were invited to enter a competition to rethink traffic patterns in Berlin's Potsdamer Platz, an intersection of several of Berlin's major boulevards and subway lines. Potsdamer Platz had emerged as a symbol of the modern metropolis—a place of movement, interchange, and speed—but it had also created a thorny circulation problem. Europe's first traffic light was installed there, but still the site cried out for innovative traffic planning. Breuer imagined a solution in which architecture and traffic design were integral. He combined a cloverleaf configuration of roadways with multilevel pedestrian walkways and densely packed modern apartments and offices that spanned the roads. He proposed creating water features in the otherwise unusable residual space at the center of the cloverleaf, imagining a whole new dimension of the urban picturesque. This drawing by the twenty-six-year-old recent graduate of the Bauhaus has only recently come to light.
In 1930, Howe and Lescaze were invited to speculate on the ideal configuration of a new building for The Museum of Modern Art. They generated several schemes, finding different ways to bring light into the galleries. This solution, the fourth and most experimental, separates the galleries into independent horizontal blocks, stacked above one another at right angles. Two sets of columns, tied by beams at each gallery level, support this configuration. Within each gallery, daylight and artificial light are combined in an adaptable lightmixing chamber placed just above the ceiling, which acts as a diffusing scrim. The chambers, visible at the roofline of each gallery unit, are glazed to admit daylight. The opaque external walls of the galleries are clad in marble or white glazed brick. While there are no conventional windows in the galleries, views to the outside are provided in the separate glass-enclosed support tower for stairs and elevators. Ultimately, the Museum chose to build a less radical proposal by Philip L. Goodwin and Edward Durrell Stone.
In 1935, during a period of turmoil in his personal life, Picasso gave up painting for about a year and began writing poetry. Between 1935 and 1959 he wrote some 340 poems. These examples from 1941  appear in his handwriting; he made the text and image arrangements later. Picasso's stream-of-consciousness writing style, filled with outrageous juxtapositions, was much appreciated by the Surrealists.
In 1935 Wagenfeld was appointed art director of a large glassware manufacturer, Lausitzer Glasverein. The unadorned geometric forms of his popular Kubus containers represented the kind of mass-produced objects that the Bauhaus had aspired to produce. Stackable, modular, space-saving, and hygienic, they could be transferred directly from refrigerator or cupboard to the dining table, and encouraged the thrifty use of leftovers.
In 1939, Goodwin, a member of The Museum of Modern Art's Board of Trustees and an architect practicing in the traditional Beaux-Arts style, teamed with Stone, an ardent modernist, to create a building appropriate to the Museum's mission. The resulting design fulfilled many of the criteria of the International Style as outlined in the Museum's 1932 show Modern Architecture: International Exhibition. The six-story structure is a white marble box with a glass-walled base, two levels of galleries with translucent glazing, and upper-level offices with horizontal strip windows. When completed, the building formed a striking contrast to the neighboring townhouses on Fifty-third Street. The inaugural exhibition in the building was Art in Our Time, celebrating the tenth anniversary of the founding of The Museum of Modern Art in 1929. The 2004 expansion of the Museum, designed by Yoshio Taniguchi, restored many original features of the 1939 building that had been modified by subsequent building projects. This original model forms an interesting comparison with the model of Le Corbusier's Villa Savoye.
In 1943 Picasso met Françoise Gilot, a young aspiring painter; she moved in with him in 1946. This was an optimistic time of renewal in France, after the end of World War II, and the couple's early years together, spent mostly in the South of France, seem to have been idyllic. The couple separated in 1953. Gilot returned to Paris with their two children, who were born in 1947 and 1948.Here Picasso employs some of Henri Matisse's signature devices, composing simply in lines and flat shapes. Picasso and Matisse renewed their friendship around this time, as both were in the South of France. Françoise Gilot and Matisse were also fond of each other.
In 1943 Picasso met Françoise Gilot, a young aspiring painter; she moved in with him in 1946. This was an optimistic time of renewal in France, after the end of World War II, and the couple's early years together, spent mostly in the South of France, seem to have been idyllic. The couple separated in 1953. Gilot returned to Paris with their two children, who were born in 1947 and 1948.To create lines in white rather than the usual black, Picasso spread ink across the surface of his printing plate instead of pushing it into the incised lines of his composition.
In 1943, Rothko, with his friend the painter Adolph Gottlieb, wrote several philosophical statements that would continue to guide his painting for years to come: "We favor the simple expression of the complex thought. We are for the large shape because it has the impact of the unequivocal. We wish to reassert the picture plane. We are for flat forms because they destroy illusion and reveal truth." The scale and surface of this painting reflect these ideas. Rothko abandoned traditional Renaissance three–point perspective, which conceives of the canvas as a window onto another world. Multiple glazes of dark pigments of varying opacity make the picture's surface feel flat, yet it quivers and vibrates, offering a sense of atmospheric depth. Rothko hoped that these compositional strategies would invite visual and emotional contemplation on the part of the viewer, creating the conditions for silence and reflection.
In 1946, Kosice, along with other Argentine artists, founded the MADI movement, one of the earliest artistic groups entirely devoted to nonobjective abstraction in the Americas. He began his landmark production of unconventional sculptural forms in the early 1940s. Inspired by the raw, nontraditional materials in the leather shop he owned with his brother, Kosice developed artworks that are in a permanent state of change.  This transformable sculpture is made from metal bands used to reinforce leather handbags. Intended to be touched and moved by the viewer, it defies the idea of sculpture as a static monument and exemplifies the primacy for MADI artists of peripheral, unconventional artistic structures, such as irregular, broken frames and forms without default positions. For conservation reasons, viewers are no longer allowed to manipulate the sculpture.
In 1949 Kelly saw a Parisian repertory production of Hamlet that relied only on black and gray curtains of varying depths and widths for changes of scene and colored lights to change the mood. Kelly's sketch of one particular curtain design inspired this wood construction. The juxtaposition of the rectangle with the curvilinear panels is a formal theme that continued to preoccupy him, as did the bright light–blue color first used in this work. The curved wood components anticipate the shaped canvases of his New York work.
In 1950, while teaching fine arts at Yale University, the German-born Albers began his most extensive and well-known series, Homage to the Square—a rigorously formulaic project comprising more than one hundred paintings and prints and developed over twenty-five years. Albers's practice was shaped by the thirteen years he spent as a student and teacher at the Bauhaus, where color theory was central to the curriculum. He set out to demonstrate that "color is the most relative medium in art, and that we never really see what we see." He applied unmixed oil paint onto Masonite boards in concentric squares, creating color relationships that are, the artist stated, "aimed at an interaction—influencing and changing each other forth and back."
In 1957 Manzoni began making his Achromes series, works of art purged of color and characterized by unconventional surfaces that he referred to as "the living flesh." Manzoni encouraged interpretation of his work to focus on the physical matter of which it was made. In this work, one of dozens Manzoni created using white fiberglass wool, the artist modeled the work's surface into hairlike tufts and curls. Then, as he described, he "kept on going, making others of straw and plastic, and a series of paintings, which were all white."
In 1958, after discovering that her welding torch expelled soot when she turned its oxygen levels down, Bontecou set out to "harness the black," as she put it.  Here she scraped off areas of soot with a razor blade, creating a labyrinth of narrow rectangles and tunnel-like corridors. She used her fingers to soften edges in some areas and applied tape to create crisp curves in others.  The small, soot-filled ovals that punctuate the drawing are precursors to the gaping black cavities that dominate the steel-and-canvas sculptures Bontecou began making roughly a year later in New York.
In 1960 and 1961, Warhol, who was still creating advertisements for print media, began making paintings based on small black-and-white advertisements that he found in the New York Daily News. Water Heater is one of these early paintings depicting consumer goods—televisions, refrigerators, storm windows, and water heaters—that signaled the modern conveniences and comforts of American middle-class life. The black drips and painterly brushstrokes that he incorporated in the borders are a nod to the gestural approach of the Abstract Expressionists, who still dominated the art scene in New York at the time.
In 1960 Clark began to produce movable metal sculptures that could be modified by the spectator from three–dimensional planes to flat reliefs. Poetic Shelter is an attempt to overcome the separation between physical shelter and poetry, life and art,by inviting spectators to interact with the object, creating new constructions and casting aside traditional conceptions of the home. In this work, as in her drawings in this exhibition, Clark liberates the plane or line from its inanimate condition and recovers its vitality through movement and transformation in space.
In 1960 Samaras began a series of Surrealistinspired boxes filled with personal materials that he encrusted in needles, mirrors, shards of glass, and brightly colored beads. The boxes were followed by room–sized installations and subversive Polaroid self–portraits. Like Samaras's boxes, Book is a multifaceted object and a miniature world in itself. Although it includes eight fictional narratives written by the artist between 1959 and 1967, it is not a storybook. Each thick amoeba–shaped page contains surprises, such as pop–ups, pockets, interlocking layers, foldouts, and hidden pamphlets. Samaras's working maquette for Book offers a glimpse of the handcrafted origin of this sculptural book.
In 1961, a Sephardic Jewish congregation hired Kahn to design a synagogue in a historic section of Philadelphia. The unrealized temple was designed in the Spanish Orthodox tradition, which calls for a central seating area for men and a separate screened seating area for women, a central bema (the platform from which the Torah is read), and an ark housing scrolls at the eastern end of the space. This drawing shows the synagogue's sanctuary. Visible in the background are cylindrical "window rooms" surrounding the main space, designed to provide seating for women. With glazed openings in their exterior walls and arched unglazed openings onto the sanctuary, these rooms were planned to diffuse daylight entering the central space. The softened light on the bare concrete walls is rendered here in Kahn's favored medium of charcoal on yellow tracing paper, which captures the monumental language of his placemaking architecture.
In 1961 Smith began the Zig series. The name, he claimed, is "just an affectionate term for Ziggurat."  Zig VII evokes the monumentality of the ancient stepped towers and their vertical thrust, while the playful bright colors undermine any sense of solemnity or ritual. The work is dominated by a tilted flat plane, which resembles an upturned canvas or palette. The attached curved and circular forms give the work a playful dimension, an impression reinforced by the dollylike base on which it rests. The circles imply a sense of continuity and cyclicality in addition to evoking the bull's-eye or target paintings made by Smith's friend, the color–field artist Kenneth Noland.
In 1964 Forberg was commissioned by MoMA, along with the Citizens' Committee for Children and the Park Association of New York City, to design a playground at the Cypress Hills Houses in East New York, Brooklyn, a high-rise development housing more than 1,400 families. Forberg's circular environment, seventy-two feet in diameter, was dominated by a forest of seven-foot-tall vertical concrete slabs that encouraged running and hiding while providing shade and shelter. The playground was admired by critics when it opened in 1967, but there were serious safety concerns, primarily regarding parental sight lines, and the site was eventually renovated with standard equipment.
In 1966, after years of a nomadic lifestyle, he Conner settled in San Francisco. Made that same year, UNTITLED represents Conner's shift from collage to intricate, meditative drawings he referred to as mandalas. The density of the twisting marks creates a sense of motion, with the black lines and white spaces taking on equal weight. This optical effect realizes Conner's belief that an entire drawing cannot be comprehended at once, just as perception and knowledge can never be fully reconciled.
In 1966 Kansas City developers approached Kahn to design what they hoped would become a new signature building for their city. The proposed office tower was to include underground parking, street-level shopping, a health club and restaurant on upper floors, and even a heliport on its roof. Square columns positioned at the building's four outer corners would support a multistory truss at the top of the building (an elegant inverted arch), from which the intermediate floors would be suspended. Kahn devised an unconventional construction scheme for the project: the four corner columns and the truss would be erected first, after which the concrete floor slabs would be poured, starting from the top. This drawing shows the building under construction, illustrating Kahn's radical proposal to build from the top down, a highly innovative assembly method that proved to be too advanced for its time; his clients were never able to secure funding for the building.
In 1967–68, Serra made Verb List Compilation: Actions to Relate to Oneself, an inventory of actions that could be employed in making sculpture—“to roll,” “to crease,” and “to fold,” for example—upon which he based a number of later works. Cutting Device: Base Plate-Measure is based on the action “to cut” and is a visual record of its meaning. Serra collected a variety of materials—rolled lead sheets, wood beams, marble slabs, and steel piping—and then used a saw to make two slices through the assembled objects. The sculpture comprises the severed objects, arranged as they appeared directly after having been cut.
In 1967, a year before making this print, Bontecou began spending her summers in rural Pennsylvania.  This development coincided with a significant change in her work: she ceased making large steel-and-canvas structures and began to construct flowers and fish out of transparent plastic, moving back and forth between sculptures, drawings, and prints of organic life forms.  "If you don't watch out," she has said, "this is all we'll have to remember what flowers used to look like." In this lithograph nails and pins hold the stalk of the flower in place, highlighting its artificiality.  Adding to Bontecou's cautionary admonition, the center of the flower resembles not only abstracted pistils and stamens, but also the mouthpiece of a gas mask—a recurrent motif in her work at the time.
In 1967, Warhol established a print-publishing business, Factory Additions, through which he published a series of screenprint portfolios on his signature subjects. Marilyn Monroe was the first one. He used the same publicity still of the actress that he had previously used for dozens of paintings. Each image here was printed from five screens: one that carried the photographic image and four for different areas of color, sometimes printed off-register. About repetitions Warhol said, “The more you look at the same exact thing, the more the meaning goes away, and the better and emptier you feel."
In 1969 Frankenthaler wrote of Mauve District, "It relates to a theme which appears on-and-off, of pictures that often have one central vast shape, district, or territory; in this case, the shape itself (a square) is a play on the very shape of the canvas." The artists delight in spatial play is also evident in the wedge of exposed raw canvasa common motif in her work. Although it is a negative space, it also conjures the edge of a tilted square a form that can be perceived as either advancing or receding in relation to the mauve square it borders. "I have always been concerned with painting that simultaneously insists on a flat surface and then denies it," Frankenthaler has said.
In 1969 Huebler stated, "The world is full of objects, more or less interesting; I do not wish to add any more. I prefer, simply, to state the existence of things in terms of time and/or place." The Conceptual artist began Variable Piece #70: Global 81 two years later with the aim of documenting every living person before his death. The innumerable images he amassed were primarily of people in public situations, such as this group of marching soldiers. He also individualized them in painted interpretations of their faces without helmets. Huebler then categorized each grouping with a description that cannot be attributed to any one particular individual in the image—in this case, "AT LEAST ONE PERSON WHO HAS EVERYTHING TO GAIN AND NOTHING TO LOSE."
In 1972, Best Products Company, a department store based in Richmond, Virginia, began a design collaboration with SITE, a multidisciplinary architecture and environmental arts organization founded by Wines. SITE reimagined the big-box store, manipulating setting, site, and facade through radical “invasions of nature,” challenging visitors to strip malls with unexpected architecture. Here, an ordinarily untamed element of nature transforms a banal architectural type through a tongue-in-cheek intervention, creating a new environment in the expanses of a suburban parking lot. With popular appeal, the buildings raised political awareness of consumer culture, creating intriguing oases in commercial landscapes, where a sense of place was frequently missing. The showrooms in this series were “a way of asking questions and changing public response to the significance of commercial buildings in the suburban environment,” the designer has said.
In 1977, Abraham began a series of speculative projects for the transformation of Venice. He was fascinated by the Cannaregio, a distressed area of the city that had suffered damage from bombs in World War I, and for which Le Corbusier designed an unrealized hospital in 1967. Abraham envisioned a new Venice free of historical pastiche, which would intensify the original elements of the city—the lagoon, winding canals with stone bridges, and the interplay between light and shadow. Like many architects in the 1970s, Abraham was interested in the essential nature of architecture and the topographical forms of the built environment. He wrote texts to accompany his drawings, which he considered to be autonomous works, not auxiliary to the act of building. Of his Hospital project he wrote, "Outer walls are torn open by gates to pass through images/forms/imprints/passages dissecting the House of Hope crossing the hidden rivers of the opaque Lagoon connecting the Houses of Birth with the Houses of No Return."
In 1978 Wong moved to New York, where he began to paint the neighborhoods of downtown Manhattan. Stanton near Forsyth Street is one of his signature Lower East Side cityscapes, in which brown-brick tenement buildings rise amid abandoned lots, refuse, and graffiti-covered surfaces. Two small figures appear in the foreground: on the left is a self-portrait of the artist, and on the right is Miguel Piñero, the Nuyorican poet and playwright who was Wong's frequent collaborator and romantic partner. The artist's stylized fingerspellings, a recurring visual idiom in his work that is appropriated from American Sign Language, scroll across the upper part of the painting.
In 1984 Sudo was one of the founders of NUNO Corporation, a textile company interested in integrating traditional aesthetics with modern technological innovations. The bold, unfettered beauty of her work has garnered worldwide recognition and exhibitions in the United States, India, and Israel. This extraordinary fractured textile is created by bonding polyester organdy and rayon cloth. Patterns are produced by printing with an acid that burns out parts of the rayon fiber without affecting the polyester.
In 1984 the Deutsche Bundespost (West German post office) commissioned a typeface from Sedley Place Design, the office where Spiekermann worked. They required a neutral, space-saving typeface that would be legible when printed very small on a postage stamp but also appropriate for use on mailboxes and trucks. Spiekermann opted for narrow letters, to save space, and strokes that are thin enough to counter the tendency of characters to run into each other but thick enough to ensure legibility. Deutsche Bundespost chose not to implement the typeface, so in 1991 Spiekermann released it on his own. According to the designer, FF Meta was intended to be a "complete antithesis of Helvetica" (the quintessential modern typeface), which he found "boring and bland." Meta became hugely popular and is often referred to as the Helvetica of the 1990s.
In 1990 Rothenberg moved to New Mexico, and the red earth of the landscape there led her to embrace color more actively. In Red Bamboo a disembodied head floats above a beautiful plane of green hatchings slashed by a dramatic red pole. Playing with perspective, as she often does—here suggesting a bird's-eye view—Rothenberg creates a disorienting sense of space and a palpable tension between foreground and background elements.
In 1999 the New Times newspaper chain (now part of Village Voice Media, Inc.), owners of ten weekly papers around the United States, approached Hoefler & Frere-Jones for help standardizing production. Ink on newsprint behaves differently in dry Arizona than it does in humid Florida, and page layouts had to be tweaked in each location to appear consistent, which often entailed the redesign of entire pages. To solve this problem, Hoefler & Frere-Jones designed Mercury with a gradation scale, creating letterforms of varying boldness that are nevertheless the same width. (Unlike the weights of a type family, which grow wider as they get bolder, a typefaces's grades increase in darkness without expanding the space the text takes up.) Differences in printing results can be compensated for by adjustment in the grade; because this does not affect the size of the type, page layouts do not have to be redesigned.
In 2004 Pastor debuted a life-size line animation of an ideal yet physically impossible bucking bull ride for her solo exhibition The Perfect Ride. The exhibition probed humanity's ability to triumph over nature and visualized the artist's extensive research on structures of movement. These simple drawn stills, which reflect the animation's aesthetic, stem from sketches Pastor made while watching rodeos on television. She has explained that her fascination with these competitions grew from "trying to learn the aesthetic language, or system, that everyone in the rodeo seems instinctively attuned to." Despite their pop-culture subject matter, the drawings have a precise formalism. The crisp, linear images, devoid of shading or modeling, are compressed in a condensed blank space.
In 3 Standard Stoppages, Duchamp had explored the possibility of adjusting the metric standard through a random procedure. In this large canvas he complicated that idea, multiplying the curves of the fallen threads from 3 Standard Stoppages by reproducing each one three times and positioning them in a diagrammatic arrangement. He also made the work by painting over the images on a canvas he had already used, those images being a female figure and a schematic, quasi-mechanical drawing of his ongoing project The Large Glass. The visible and semivisible layers of Network of Stoppages seem to contrast three representational systems: traditional figuration, chance operations, and the diagram, which maps the world without picturing it.
In a 1902 rant against "Scotto-Continental 'New Art'" largely directed at Mackintosh, the critic H. F. Jennings talked of “extravagance bordering on insanity," "lunatical topsy turvydom," and the pursuit of novelty at the expense of comfort and utility. Although the materials and construction methods used by this architect and designer were not technologically innovative, on a more abstract level the dark, sleek form of this chair can be read as a poetic response to the industrial culture of Glasgow, once called "the Workshop of the World," and as an attempt to give physical form to the sense of risk and drama implicit in the city's boom/bust economy. The chair was designed for one of the famous Glasgow tearooms commissioned by local businesswoman and temperance supporter Kate Cranston. It also appeared in the 1900 Vienna Secession exhibition and in the home of Mackintosh and his artist wife, Margaret Macdonald.
In a letter written to her close friend Sol LeWitt, Hesse described this work as looking like a "breast and a penis." She constructed these protruding forms with cloth–covered electrical wire atop a papier–mâché–treated Masonite board. Though Hesse initially likened the forms to both male and female parts, she later referred to the work as a "breast job" with "one pink nipple and one white." The title, Ringaround Arosie, puns on the popular nursery rhyme and pays tribute to Hesse's friend Rosalyn Goldman, who had recently become pregnant. This is one of fourteen relief works that Hesse, who was previously a painter, constructed during a year spent in Germany. She declared herself a sculptor upon her return to the United States.
In a matter-of-fact description of the labor-intensive process and range of techniques that went into this work, Wolfe has said, "What you're looking at is an object that has a paper jacket, as a real book would have, which is laminated onto canvasboard and wood and that has been jointed with modeling paste. The brown background is hand painted. The red band at the bottom was originally printed lithographically and then overpainted with oil paint. The diagram itself was done completely lithographically. The pages were created by painting the edges with oil paint and then dragging a very stiff brush across the wet paint, and then stained later to give them an aged and discolored feel." Wolfe is one of a number of contemporary artists who have directed their practice toward exacting, literal works that replicate an existing object. With varying degrees of similitude, these works pose as duplicates of the real. Carefully placed in the perceptual gap between the illusory and the real, Untitled (Cubism and Abstract Art) is a precise lookalike of a worn and dog-eared copy of the exhibition catalogue by Alfred H. Barr, Jr., published in 1936, that became a cornerstone in the early history of modernism. Painstakingly handcrafted, it plays with absolute notions of true and false, reality and illusion. Installed frontally and upright on the wall, it presents itself simultaneously as a work of art and a book whose subject matter is art, reversing expectations of both. Despite its affinity with Marcel Duchamp's readymades, Untitled (Cubism and Abstract Art) is far from a found object. Like readymades, it raises questions about where life ends and art begins, yet its handcrafted quality and use of artistic materials generate the paradox of appropriating something from the world while engaging the traditional language of art.
In an artistic practice combining paintings, telegrams, and postcards, Kawara aims to make viewers aware of their place in history and to give the passage of time a kind of materiality. Kawara is best known for his ongoing Today series of date paintings, begun in 1966. Each painting is made in a single day and contains only the hand-lettered date of its making.Kawara's interest in how our society uses dates to grasp time's elusiveness can be seen in the two–volume book project One Million Years. The first book, Past, is dedicated to "all those who have lived and died," and covers the years from 998,031 BC to 1969 AD. The second book, Future, is dedicated to "the last one," and begins with the year 1993 AD and ends with the year 1,001,992 AD. At the request of the artist, portions of the books have been read aloud in locations around the world. A recording of these readings is part of Kawara's installation here.
In a painting he later described as "completely characteristic" of his work before World War I, Otto Dix envisions a nun's internal struggle between her hope for eventual heavenly rewards and her desire for immediate worldly pleasures. The jarring, acidic colors on the nun's face and hands contrast sharply with the anguish and torment conveyed by her downcast eyes and furrowed brow. Dix matches the deep lines and fractured planes of her face to the soaring vaults of the Gothic cathedral in which she appears. Within this holy space, she is torn by competing desires. On the left, a radiating, vulva-shaped form pushes aside the agonized and bloody Jesus. Opposite, a nude cradles her own glowing red stomach, alluding to motherhood, another earthly experience the nun must renounce for her faith.
In April 1974, after being invited to exhibit in a group show of women artists, Morton began using doilies, bows, and glitter in her work, reclaiming the decorative materials often associated with femininity. Later that year she became fascinated by the book Weeds of the Northeast, a Victorian-style field guide that ascribes emotional characteristics to plants. In a series of ten drawings of treasure maps, Morton drew and labeled various leaves and ensconced the drawings in glitter and fake wood paneling. Her whimsical depictions, combined with descriptions like "a few large triangular teeth," evoke a sense of playful adventure and potential danger.
In Arata Isozaki's unrealized design for the Joint Core System spatial construction, massive pylons support elevated transportation, housing, and office systems as well as parks and walkways, suspended above the existing city. This scheme was undertaken at a time when Kenzo Tange and a group of five young architects working in his office, known as the Metabolists, were creating radical solutions for restructuring Tokyo's rapid and uncontrolled postwar growth. As a member of Tange's office, Isozaki was inspired by Tange's proposal for a multilevel urban construction above the city. But, unlike Tange's plan, in which a square support system limits expansion to four directions, Isozaki's round columns permit growth in any direction.
In August 1994 Jaar traveled to Rwanda, where he witnessed the horrific aftermath of one of the most violent ethnic conflicts of recent history. Three months before, nearly one million Rwandans had been systematically killed during one hundred days of civil unrest. Sensing an urgent need for action, immediately following his return home Jaar initiated his epic Rwanda Project, which took many forms over the subsequent six years. This photolithograph, produced for an exhibition in Malmö, Sweden, is one of the project's earliest manifestations. Adopting a commercial aesthetic, Jaar mounted four hundred of these prints on backlit displays in public locations throughout the city. Residents encountered the signs on a regular basis as they went about their daily activities.For over twenty years, Jaar has explored thorny social, political, and humanitarian issues in his work. Producing poetic yet disturbing installations often composed of text, photographs, and architectural elements, he hunts for effective means to represent complex and weighty topics often trivialized by conventional media outlets. This print, with its bold lettering and hypnotic repetition, is minimalist in its simplicity, yet its almost abstract design is infused with grave subject matter. This juncture of form and content reveals Jaar's sleight of hand: through seductive and eloquent beauty, he brings viewers to a contemplation of some of humanity's most appalling moments.
In Bacon's final triptych, made at the end of his career, a composite figure steps in and out of stagelike spaces. Seemingly nailed to the canvas are closely cropped headshots of Bacon's face, at right, and, at left, that of a Brazilian racecar driver, placed above muscular lower bodies. The triptych form is rooted in Christian religious painting; the center panel is traditionally reserved for the object of devotion. Here, an abject mass of flesh spills forth from the black niche. Bacon said his triptychs were "the thing I like doing most, and I think this may be related to the thought I've sometimes had of making a film. I like the juxtaposition of the images separated on three different canvases."
In Berlin in the 1930s, Bellmer constructed a series of life-size dolls, which he drew and photographed in various positions and settings, exploiting what he called their "accommodating and limitless docility." This work relates to his second doll, made in 1935 from glue and tissue paper and painted a flesh tone. Its ball joints, which allowed for endless recombinations of its appendages, are emphasized in this drawing by crosshatched modeling in white ink on the black ground. These swollen articulations make the body a tumescent mass; as in Bellmer's sculpture Doll, its order is undermined by the lack of distinct head or feet.
In Bruce Nauman's Lip Sync, a video camera is turned upside down and held in a tight close–up on the filmmaker's face as he speaks the words of the title. The words, which at first emerge in a low murmur, quickly grow louder and more distinct, overwhelming the sound track and creating a rhythmic beat. The sound and image fall in and out of synchronization as the viewer tries vainly to connect the movement of Nauman's lips with his voice. This struggle intensifies as the work progresses, keeping the viewer in a state of nervous tension. Ultimately, the artist and the viewer become participants in a dance, both physical and intellectual, that is never reconciled, and in which moving images and sounds spiral around each other until the piece's conceptual framework appears ready to implode—yet never does.
In collaboration with a specialized printmaking workshop, Kentridge created this monumental linoleum cut using a large panel of linoleum flooring. Because it is inexpensive and easy to print, linoleum is used widely in community-based printmaking workshops in South Africa. Expressive black-and-white patterning is characteristic of the medium.
In collaboration with a specialized printmaking workshop, Kentridge created this monumental linoleum cut using a large panel of linoleum flooring. Because it is inexpensive and easy to print, linoleum is used widely in community–based printmaking workshops in South Africa. Expressive black-and-white patterning is characteristic of the medium.
In Cubi X gleaming stainless steel rectangles and squares of various dimensions are assembled to evoke the human figure. Despite its monumental scale, the organization of the asymmetrical forms onto a variety of spatial planes—vertical, tilted, or horizontal—leads the eye upward, against gravity. Between 1961 and 1965, Smith made a series of twenty–eight sculptures that he termed "Cubi." The name, which Smith invented, links them to Cubism. The geometric shapes, their two–dimensional orientation, and the shimmering effects of the polished and scratched stainless steel surfaces recall the paintings of Pablo Picasso and Georges Braque from the early twentieth century.
In Der Angler (The Angler) a network of lines depicts a fisherman: jagged marks describe his face, and curving, parallel lines form his body, from which the fishing pole and line appear to sprout. Klee said of his drawn line, “It goes out for a walk, so to speak, aimlessly for the sake of the walk.”
In eighteen months, Rauschenberg created thirty-four illustrations for Dante's Inferno, using the technique of transfer drawing. Each illustration, one for each canto, is intended to be read vertically from upper left to lower right as an episodic narrative with sequential events flowing into one another. Characters in the allegory are represented by photographs—culled from the mass media— of athletes, politicians, and astronauts, among others. In this image, Dante and his guide, Virgil, approach the eighth circle of Hell. Dante appears in the upper left-hand corner as a man wrapped in a towel. The guardians of Hell, described in the poem as formidable giants, are shown at the lower right as Olympic athletes standing on a podium. The oversized chain link indicates the giants' power; it also refers to their being chained for their sins. Below, the tiny figures of the two poets are lowered into the pit. By using recognizable imagery to relate the classic text of a quest for divine truth, Rauschenberg integrates the high and the low, the real and the illusory, the past and the present.In creating his illustrations, the artist clipped reproductions from magazines, coated them with chemical solvent, and placed them face down on the drawing surface. The reverse sides of the clippings were rubbed over with a pen, transferring the images onto the paper. Finally, an overlay of transparent washes of gouache and pencil marks was added to allude to different moods or emotional states.
In Endless Nude, fluid, anthropomorphic forms merge with the surrounding landscape. Projecting up from the ground or swirling overhead, these figures seem not to be bound by earthly forces.  Matta referred to such compositions as "inscapes"—landscapes as projections of interior activity—and coined the term "psychological morphology" to describe their forms. Interested in life on both micro and macroscopic scales, he created a counterpoint between cellular organisms and fleshy limbs. His dynamic compositions came to the attention of Surrealist leader André Breton in 1937; the following year, when this drawing was executed, Matta's work was included in the International Exhibition of Surrealism in Paris.
In equating the surface of marble to skin, Giuseppe Penone explores the material's vulnerability. The artist carved deep tracks along the natural veins of the marble and then continued these tracks, using protruding thorns, across an adjacent canvas. "Working with veined marble . . . I make it similar to human skin," Penone has written. "The resulting surface, which is pleasantly smooth to the touch, is put in relationship to the panel in which thorns draw veins. Thorns will wound you if you touch them, and their image is always in relation to skin and their painful wounding."
Influential among the Parisian Surrealists, André Masson experimented with a range of styles that included Cubism and Symbolism. A prolific printmaker, he completed eight hundred prints during his career, mostly employing lithography and etching techniques. He was introduced to printmaking through the Surrealist writers with whom he began collaborating in the early 1920s, and nearly half of his prints appeared in illustrated books. After recovering from the traumatic ordeal of trench warfare during World War I, Masson returned to Paris in 1920 and moved into a studio adjoining Joan Miró's on the rue Blomet. Masson's studio became a gathering place for young avant-garde writers and artists. By 1924 he had emerged on the Parisian art scene with an exhibition at Daniel-Henry Kahnweiler's Galerie Simon, from which André Breton, the charismatic leader of the Surrealists, purchased a painting. A self-described anarchist, Masson uncharacteristically accepted Breton's invitation to join the Surrealist group, although his relationship with them was stormy. Kahnweiler was the first to publish books pairing Surrealist artists and poets and, during the 1920s and early 1930s, he issued five books with illustrations by Masson and texts by such literary figures as Michel Leiris, Louis Aragon, and Georges Bataille. The volume C'est les bottes de 7 lieues, one of Masson's first "automatist" print projects, reflects his process of initially marking a plate with random gestures and then teasing out fragments of recognizable images. Robert Desnos, a friend of Masson's and a fellow Parisian Surrealist, executed the poems for this publication while in a trancelike state.
In Germany in the 1980s, Kippenberger was known for his outrageous and provocative behavior, both in his art and his personal life. A particularly vicious article by a German art critic served as the catalyst for this and several other "Martin in the Corner" sculptures, which consist of full-scale replicas of the artist posed like a naughty schoolboy doing his penance. Kippenberger created six versions of the sculpture. Each one is uniquely made and clothed,and the faces and hands are cast in aluminum from molds of his own body. While the other Martin figures are dressed more formally, this figure, commissioned by The Museum of Modern Art, wears Levi's jeans and a shirt with a globe on it, a nod to casual American fashion and MoMA's role as an international center of modern art.
In Grant Wood's lithograph, a farmer rests from toil, having installed a very long row of fence posts that form a path to a distant barn. The stylized landscape of rolling hills is orderly, and the smiling figure, his shovel a symbol of his labor, seems satisfied and optimistic. Created at the end of the 1930s, the decade of the Great Depression, the Dust Bowl, and countless farm foreclosures, Wood's image is an idealized view of a seemingly happier time.
In Hamburg in 1999, Rhoades made a large installation, titled Perfect World, in which scaffolding supported a wooden platform punctured with large holes through which scattered material was visible below. Rhoades likened the platform to the Garden of Eden suspended precariously above Hell. These drawings are a diary of the installation and include diagrams, sketches, fantasies, and telephone numbers. The plexiglass frames are integral to the work, reflecting color onto the wall in a subtle reference to Minimalist artists Donald judd and Dan Flavin. The shoeboxes are storage devices, but they also refer to the relationship between Heaven and Hell presented in the installation: Mephisto is a brand of comfortable shoes and the name of a demonic literary character. According to Rhoades, this duality is further embodied by the idea that "if you throw things in paradise or in a perfect world away, it's creating evil."
In her design of several kitchens at the 1931 German Building Exhibition in Berlin, Reich embraced the rational principles of domestic reformers Christine Frederick and Erna Meyer. Reich's Apartment for a Single Person featured a cooking cabinet that was subsequently put into production by Otto Kahn. When closed, it appeared to be an ordinary closet or wardrobe, but when opened it revealed a sink, shelves, two burners, drawers, counter space, and a hook on which to hang a kettle.
In her recent work Smith has often turned to fairy tales in search of dramatic female personae and alter egos. The poignant vulnerability of childhood is an underlying theme in many of her images, like this one, based on Lewis Carroll's manuscript drawings for Alice's Adventures Under Ground (1886). The tension between young girls and animals pervades this scene as Alice struggles in a pool of her own tears with the duck, the dodo, and others. In order to represent the animals close to life-size Smith drew on the largest copperplate ULAE's etching press could accommodate.
In his early twenties Christo escaped the oppressive Communist regime in his native country and wandered in exile throughout Europe, supporting himself primarily by painting commissioned portraits. He has related his early wrapped-package works to the isolation and sadness of his coming of age in Bulgaria; the wheelbarrow, in particular, suggests a stateless, nomadic life. In 1964, shortly after making Package on Wheelbarrow, Christo relocated to New York City. There, in partnership with his wife, Jeanne-Claude, he has created large-scale temporary installations, wrapping trees, islands, buildings, and bridges in fabric.
In his Face Farces series, Rainer used oilstick scribbles and smudges to either exaggerate or eliminate the features portrayed in the underlying self-portrait photographs. He initially frequented a train station photo booth late at night to obtain his source images, but eventually found that professional photographers could better capture the precise moments of facial tension he wished to highlight. Rainer has said, "Drawing over photos of myself . . . gave me the feeling of realizing a reproduction of myself and a symbolic transformation and extinction of myself at the same time."  At once celebrating and desecrating the body, Rainer's mixed-media technique has allowed him to "discover the subhuman in myself."
In his first book project Dion assumed the role of an eighteenth– or nineteenth–century naturalist, exploring and documenting the flora and fauna of a fictional terra incognita. Assembled as a field guide, the book reproduces writings, drawings, and photographs of the artist's observations and discoveries in this unknown land.
In his introduction to Architectural Fantasies: 101 Compositions, Iakov Chernikov's sixth and final volume on design theory, he defended the significance of visionary paper architecture: "Not without reason, however, have great thinkers of all times accorded vast importance to fantasy, as being the forerunner of any kind of progress. To look one-sidedly at the idea of fantasy and not to consider its positive role in all fields of culture and art-this is to make a great mistake." For Chernikov the fantasy drawing offered the architect an effective means of liberating himself from convention and imagining a future reflecting the avant-garde culture of the new Soviet Union. As a Constructivist, and like contemporaries such as Kasimir Malevich and El Lissitzky, Chernikov was possessed by the powers of abstraction and geometry. This is reflected in the phrase Combination of curvilinear and rectilinear forms along principles of design, the rather perfunctory subtitle for Complex Architectural Invention (composition no. 49 from Architectural Fantasies): this is a formal composition based on line (curved or straight), plane, surface, body, and volume. The excitement and brilliance of Chernikov's fantasy lie in his dynamic handling of diagonal lines, ellipses, and bright colors, presented in a dizzying axonometric view. The imagery, unabashedly industrial in character yet devoid of any context or program, is remarkably fresh and pregnant with possibility. In producing his Architectural Fantasies Chernikov was interested not only in self-discovery but in inspiring his viewers. The seeds of his fantasies, however, never had a chance to germinate in the Soviet Union: Stalin's repressive regime, which effectively put an end to Constructivism in the 1930s, favored a banal architecture based on monumental classicism and Social Realism. The potential of Architectural Fantasies lay dormant until Chernikov and other Constructivist architects were "rediscovered" in the 1980s, inspiring a new generation of architects worldwide in a movement that was labeled "deconstructivist."
In his late teens, John Sloan worked for a Philadelphia print dealer and bookseller and taught himself to etch by reading a handbook that described the technique. Between 1891 and 1904, he made approximately one hundred etchings for a publisher of calendars, illustrated books, and novelty items. After taking classes with Ash Can School painter Robert Henri, a proponent of realistic depictions of everyday life, Sloan applied these lessons to his printmaking when he embarked on the series New York City Life in 1905-06. Despite critical acclaim for the ten etchings in this series, the public found them too risqué, and Sloan initially exhibited and sold few of them. One of these prints, Turning Out the Light, is an example of the sort of innuendo that some viewers found objectionable. However, in choosing ordinary people for his subjects, Sloan was following the example of artists he admired, including Goya, Dürer, Rembrandt, and Hogarth, as well as contemporary illustrators. In fact, a humanitarian outlook informed much of his art, and part of the appeal of printmaking for him was that it made art more affordable and accessible. As art editor for the Socialist magazine The New Masses from 1910 to 1914, he also published many political and satirical drawings. Primarily between 1891 and 1937, Sloan completed more than three hundred etchings, as well as a few prints in other mediums, before turning almost exclusively to painting. For printmaking, he usually drew from memory and then worked on his plates with various tools and chemicals, evolving his imagery through several states. Subway Stairs, for example, went through seven such states before Sloan settled on the version shown here. As the demand for his prints rose, he sometimes enlisted the services of professional printers to help print the edition.
In its striking simplicity, Nile Born embodies the communion of a female figure and the land. A simple wooden form is covered in sand, and a large inner channel suggests a vaginal cavity. Organic and sensual, the silhouette represents the body in its most basic form. "My art is the way I reestablish the bonds that unite me to the universe," Mendieta said. "It is a return to the maternal source." Born in Cuba, Mendieta was separated from her family at age twelve and exiled to the United States, where she lived in orphanages and foster homes in Iowa throughout her youth.Works in Mendieta's Silueta series, like Nile Born, are often site-specific, earthbound, and subject to the elements and the fragility of the organic materials from which they are made. Nile Born is one of the last Siluetas Mendieta made before her death in 1985, and the title refers to Cuba's African heritage. The work is an arresting exploration of self, place, belonging, and alienation, concepts that permeate Mendieta's entire oeuvre of installations, earth works, performances, videos, and sculptures.
In January 1967 Boetti announced his first solo exhibition—at Turin's Galleria Christian Stein—with an invitation featuring a grid of samples of the industrial materials he used in his art. The original installation was deliberately crowded, like the displays in the hardware stores where Boetti purchased many of his materials. These works refer both to the history of manufacturing in Turin (the artist's hometown) and to child's play, the acts of stacking and grouping. In addition, Boetti's embrace of simple, everyday materials aligned him with the burgeoning Italian art movement Arte Povera.
In July of 1970, disillusioned with the state of painting in the 1960s, John Baldessari burned many of his early landscapes and abstractions. By then he had abandoned the painterly conventions he found alienating and was making canvases using photographs and texts. Works like I Will Not Make Any More Boring Art, his first print, demonstrate his thinking at the time and his developing interest in Conceptual art. Created at Nova Scotia College of Art and Design in conjunction with an unconventional exhibition, it depicts a sentence that Baldessari instructed students to write on the gallery walls "like punishment." He was not present at the "exhibition," nor at the workshop where the print was made. He simply sent a handwritten page to be reproduced and made a videotape of himself writing the sentence. Such activities were typical of this school's experimental program in the 1970s. Its lithography workshop, in particular, served to broaden the scope of printmaking by inviting artists like Baldessari, Vito Acconci, Dennis Oppenheim, and others to explore its potential for Conceptual art projects. Baldessari has gone on to make about ninety prints, primarily in his signature photo-collage style. An example of his collages, made from stills of old B-movies superimposed with geometric shapes, is seen here in an illustration for a special edition of Tristram Shandy. This spread is part of an accordion-folded volume of his illustrations commissioned by Andrew Hoyem of The Arion Press. When Hoyem learned of Baldessari's interest in Laurence Sterne's novel of 1760, he invited him to participate in a new publication that matches Sterne's disregard for plot and punctuation with the artist's own disjointed imagery. The project also includes a volume of the complete text with all its eccentricities intact, and another containing a critical essay.
In July of 1970, disillusioned with the state of painting in the 1960s, John Baldessari burned many of his early landscapes and abstractions. By then he had abandoned the painterly conventions he found alienating and was making canvases using photographs and texts. Works like I Will Not Make Any More Boring Art, his first print, demonstrate his thinking at the time and his developing interest in Conceptual art. Created at Nova Scotia College of Art and Design in conjunction with an unconventional exhibition, it depicts a sentence that Baldessari instructed students to write on the gallery walls "like punishment." He was not present at the "exhibition," nor at the workshop where the print was made. He simply sent a handwritten page to be reproduced and made a videotape of himself writing the sentence. Such activities were typical of this school's experimental program in the 1970s. Its lithography workshop, in particular, served to broaden the scope of printmaking by inviting artists like Baldessari, Vito Acconci, Dennis Oppenheim, and others to explore its potential for Conceptual art projects. Baldessari has gone on to make about ninety prints, primarily in his signature photo-collage style. An example of his collages, made from stills of old B-movies superimposed with geometric shapes, is seen in an illustration for a special edition of Tristram Shandy. This spread is part of an accordion-folded volume of his illustrations commissioned by Andrew Hoyem of The Arion Press. When Hoyem learned of Baldessari's interest in Laurence Sterne's novel of 1760, he invited him to participate in a new publication that matches Sterne's disregard for plot and punctuation with the artist's own disjointed imagery. The project also includes a volume of the complete text with all its eccentricities intact, and another containing a critical essay.
In March 1909, Matisse received a commission from the Russian merchant Sergei Shchukin for two large decorative panels, Dance and Music (now in the Hermitage Museum, St. Petersburg). This painting was made quickly as a compositional study for Dance, which was intended to hang on the landing of a staircase, approached from the lower right. This may be why the lower figure leans into the painting, increasing the sense of movement, and why the figure at left is so large, slowing it. Drawing visible beneath the paint shows that Matisse started with two smaller figures where the large figure is now.
In May 2003 McKenzie and Olowska temporarily ran an underground bar called nova Popularna in Warsaw, Poland, and held concerts and performances there each week. They designed the bar's interior, including its murals, curtains, customized second–hand furniture, and sculptures, and bartended with the help of friends and locals. After Nova Popularna closed they began producing works to commemorate and historicize the project. This collaborative series of collages incorporates visual materials that inspired the bar, including images of artworks such as Édouard Manet's A Bar at the Folies-Bergère (1882) and Edgar Degas's The Absinthe Drinker (1875–76), along with clippings of models from contemporary fashion magazines and Art Deco interiors from architecture and design publications.
In order to free the hand from the rational dictates of the mind, the Surrealists practiced a technique known as automatic drawing, in which the artist's subconscious mind guides a line's path across the page. In this work, Miró harnessed that practice to describe a series of organic shapes that add upto a body. Collaged color reproductions of a fish and a chick recall the first title Miró gave this drawing-collage, L'Origine de la bête humaine (The origin of the human animal). Bearing both breasts and a phallus, this figure blurs the distinction not only between human and animal but also between the sexes.
In paintings, drawings, and prints, Otto Dix portrayed the corruption and social apathy of German society after World War I with harsh, critical realism. Completing some three hundred prints during his lifetime, he experimented extensively with etching, lithography, and woodcut, making his most significant printed work during the early 1920s in response to the horror of the war and its aftermath. In 1909 Dix moved to Dresden to study art. At the onset of World War I he volunteered to serve as a machine gunner and suffered serious wounds in front-line advances through Belgium and France. When he returned to Dresden to resume his studies, Dix joined a group of young radical Expressionists and also had contact with Dadaists, whose anarchism encouraged his growing nihilism. Directing a critical eye toward German society, Dix became preoccupied with subjects like veterans and urban decay, as well as prostitution and the destructive power of sex. In Syphilitic, evil temptation literally fills a man's head, as he suffers from the madness brought on by this disease. In the early 1920s, Dix was encouraged by art dealer Karl Nierendorf to make prints for broad distribution. He turned to illustrating the devastation of the trench warfare he had experienced, creating an epic series of fifty intaglios that have been compared to Goya's The Disasters of War. The imagery in this series differs radically from the 1916–18 Futurist-influenced sketches he had made at the front, when, deeply interested in the philosophy of Friedrich Nietzsche, he enthusiastically embraced war as an inevitable part of life. In these later images, Dix portrays the destructive effects of war, including rotting corpses and bombed cities and landscapes, as well as its dehumanizing impact. In Storm Troops Advance under Gas Attack, soldiers are shown as menacing ghouls whose depravity is emphasized by terrifying gas masks.Originally from TextEntryID 69314 (TextTypeID 127)The Disasters of War  (see page 18)
In Paris, in the 1920s, Man Ray began experimenting with photograms, pictures made by placing objects on photosensitive paper and exposing it to light. In these works, which he called "rayographs," after himself, light is both the subject and medium. In Le Retour à la raison (Return to Reason), the artist extended the rayograph technique to moving images—he sprinkled salt and pepper onto one piece of film and pins onto another and added sequences of night shots at a fairground and a segment showing a paper mobile dancing with its own shadow. The final sequence of the film introduces Man Ray's legendary model Alice Prin—also known as Kiki of Montparnasse—naked, her body illuminated in stripes of light.
In preparation for this film, Fischli and Weiss worked for a full year to perfect a series of chain reactions in which objects would topple, burst, burn, and smoke, shifting kinetic energy from one to the next. This film originated in a series of photographs, called Equilibres, that the duo created in 1984 and 1987, which take precariously balanced industrial objects as their subjects. The camera minimizes differences in scale—for example, between a barrel and a balloon—and the objects take the place of human actors, who are nowhere to be found.The Way Things Go builds on modern art's investigation of the space between high art and the everyday. The film was shot in a stark warehouse, and automobile tires, garbage bags, and plastic water jugs take center stage, rolling, twisting, and exploding in what seems to be an unbroken, thirty-minute sequence of events. The film is an absurdist feat; Fischli and Weiss's devotion to detritus injects a burst of humor into the high-minded seriousness of the art world.
In September 1938 Mondrian moved from Paris to London to escape the threat of a German invasion. There he made Trafalgar Square, the first in a series of paintings titled after locations in cities that gave him refuge during World War II. The small, subtly textured planes of primary colors that seem to vibrate within their black perimeters are smaller and their arrangement more syncopated than in many of the artists earlier canvases: color segments expand across two rectangular fields in the larger black grid, and thickened blocks of black function as both line and plane (at lower right, for example). The date "39–43" inscribed on the original canvas stretcher suggests that Mondrian revisited this painting after his flight to New York in 1940 to escape the escalating war.
Insicuro noncurante, a portfolio of eighty-two numbered sheets, is an overview of Boetti's artistic production from 1966 to 1975. The portfolio reproduces original sketches and postcards, maps, and letters in a surveylike compilation of many of his most significant works made during that time. Developed with printmaker Rinaldo Rossi, the portfolio is, among other things, a homage to the American artist Marcel Duchamp (1887–1968), who, like Boetti, spent considerable energy and effort handcrafting miniature models of much of his work.
In Simmons's first photographs, made in the mid–1970s, female dolls in dollhouse interiors cook and clean, performing the typical chores of a housewife. Both the dolls and the stereotypes they embody evoke middle-class America in the 1950s. Like many of her contemporaries, Simmons has used the material of popular culture to probe and often debunk its social values. But the critical spirit of her photographs is colored with nostalgia. Later she recalled, "I was simply trying to recreate a feeling, a mood . . . a sense of the fifties that I knew was both beautiful and lethal at the same time."Like the objects they represent, these early prints are quite small, but Simmons's work soon grew in scale. The pictures in her Walking Objects series of the late 1980s ironically endow commercial objects with human personalities by giving them legs and presenting them at a human scale — this print is almost seven feet tall. Isolated against a seamless backdrop under the dramatic artificial light of a stage or studio, the figures in these photographs are perfect and alluring. In Walking House, the sleek legs of a young starlet or model support a toy suburban house of the sort the young woman might have grown up in and in which—after marriage—she is destined to live.
In South of the Border, a series of twenty-nine ink-on-paper drawings, Fernando Bryce renders an illustrated pamphlet from 1958, published by the U.S. Department of Defense to introduce employees to highlights of Latin American countries they might visit during their tours of duty. Each drawing reproduces a page from the original publication, which comprises introductory texts and photographs. Bryce's work appropriates imagery from mass culture, using decontextualization and irony to question cultural stereotypes. In carefully rendering the printed pamphlet as individual ink drawings, the artist emphasizes his technical ability and individual subjectivity and simultaneously draws attention to the language, images, and function of this type of tourist literature. The choice of a Department of Defense pamphlet from the Cold War period is not accidental. The text combines descriptions and illustrations of architectural landmarks, ethnic types, and natural resources designed to educate American military person nel about cultural norms and the economic importance of the region for the United States. From our contemporary perspective these representations of Latin America as a potential economic resource for the U.S. government—one populated by flamboyant dancers, picturesque Indians, and rural laborers—open themselves up to varied interpretations. Rather than attempting to copy the pamphlet's appearance exactly and risk confusing his duplicate with the original, Bryce has purposefully reproduced the 1958 standardized typeface in ink by hand. Likewise, rather than emulating the slick, hard-edged appearance of the printed photographs, he has used a range of brushwork to create the effect of light and shadow. Through such intentional contrasts between the original and his renderings, he calls attention to his technical repertoire and mastery of the medium. Bryce has referred to his working method as "mimetic analysis," underscoring his subjective response to his sources.1 Thus the specificity of his point of view invites the viewer's own participation in the interpretation of such works, as both artist and spectator question the often-taken-for-granted "neutrality" of tourist literature, in this case the 1958 pamphlet South of the Border.1. Fernando Bryce, quoted in Christoff Tannert and Jorge Villacorta, Fernando Bryce (Berlin: Verlag Thumm & Kolbe, 2003), p. 3.
Inspired by the recent history of her native Colombia, Doris Salcedo creates sculptures that address the effects of war, political oppression, and other acts of violence. Composed of found materials—including domestic furniture, remnants of clothing, and human bones—her works tell harrowing tales of trauma and affliction.Atrabiliarios (Atrabilious) was conceived in response to testimony the artist gathered from relatives and loved ones of those who disappeared during the Colombian Civil War, an armed conflict that began in the 1960s. Worn female shoes in sealed niches are stand-ins for the missing bodies and evoke reliquaries for the remains of saints. "I believe that the major possibilities of art are not in showing the spectacle of violence but instead in hiding it," the artist has said. "It is the proximity, the latency of violence that interests me."
Inspired by the recent history of her native Colombia, Doris Salcedo creates sculptures that address the effects of war, political oppression, and other acts of violence. Composed of found materials—including domestic furniture, remnants of clothing, and human bones—her works tell harrowing tales of trauma and affliction.In La casa viuda IV (Widowed House IV), a door flanked by bedposts, a woman's diaphanous blouse, and a slender bone create an uncanny domestic scene, suggesting irrevocable loss. "I believe that the major possibilities of art are not in showing the spectacle of violence but instead in hiding it," the artist has said. "It is the proximity, the latency of violence that interests me."
Inspired by the recent history of her native Colombia, Doris Salcedo creates sculptures that address the effects of war, political oppression, and other acts of violence. Composed of found materials—including domestic furniture, remnants of clothing, and human bones—her works tell harrowing tales of trauma and affliction. The wooden chest and chairs in Untitled have been divested of their usual purposes, transformed into monuments to the missing. "I believe that the major possibilities of art are not in showing the spectacle of violence but instead in hiding it," the artist has said. "It is the proximity, the latency of violence that interests me."
Instead of sitting flat on a paper cup, the Solo Traveler Coffee-Cup Lid features a domed configuration designed to make sipping more comfortable by accommodating not only the lips, but also the nose. In an unintended bonus, the Solo Traveler can also accommodate the foam of the cappuccinos and lattes that became popular in the United States in the late 1980s, when it was introduced. Its success was rapid and universal, and in the cutthroat world of coffee-cup-lid production, imitations soon followed.
In Stop, Repair, Prepare: Variations on "Ode to Joy" for a Prepared Piano (2008), Jennifer Allora (American, born 1974) and Guillermo Calzadilla (Cuban, born 1971) combine the mediums of performance art and sculpture. A pianist emerges through a hole carved in a grand piano to play the fourth movement of Ludwig von Beethovens famous Ninth Symphony of 1824 (widely known as "Ode to Joy") while walking around the Atrium. By modifying the instrument, the artists have fundamentally changed the dynamic between pianist and instrument; leaning very far forward, the performer must read the keyboard upside down and backward. Furthermore, the hole renders two octaves of keys inoperative. The result is a structurally incomplete version of the signature melody, played with great efforta contradictory and ambiguous performance of a song that has long been invoked as a symbol of humanist values and national pride.
In ten frenzied illustrations, Paul Klee captured the energy, violence, and chaos of Curt Corrinth's Expressionist novella Potsdamer Platz. Set in a Berlin freed from traditional sexual and moral constraints, the book extols the liberating and transformative power of female sexuality. It follows the rise of Hans Termaden, a boy from the provinces, who persuades the city's prostitutes, and eventually all women, to fornicate freely. Klee's illustrations become increasingly orgiastic and towering as the book reaches its climax, in which Termaden ascends to heaven after ushering in a new order. PUBLISHING HISTORYThis is one of only two books Klee illustrated in his extraordinarily prolific career. Although skeptical of the book's literary merits, Klee accepted the commission in November 1918. Munich's Georg Müller Verlag first published Corrinth's text in 1919, and then issued a deluxe edition in 1920 with Klee's illustrations and a foreword by art historian Eckart von Sydow, who had recommended Klee to the publisher. The Museum's copy, which has an inscription from the author, seems to be a unique proof. It combines elements of the deluxe edition—a luxurious binding and lithographic reproductions—with the title page and text from the regular edition.
Interested in the sociopolitical situation in the world around him from a young age, Philip Guston was expelled from high school for publishing a broadside criticizing the English department. Later he became deeply inspired by the social content of the great Mexican muralists after seeing José Clemente Orozco at work, and in the 1930s he executed large-scale public murals in their heroic style for the government's Works Progress Administration. Guston began making abstract paintings in the 1950s, which earned him major recognition. His artistic evolution, however, was far from over. By the late 1960s he had developed a new figurative style inspired in part by the comic books he had so loved as a child, but with a far darker and more pessimistic world view. Based on a new personal iconography of bricks, bottles, hooded Klansmen, and references to his personal struggles and life as a painter, these works are executed in a consciously naive style that has been described as "urban primitive." This later vocabulary dominates Guston's printmaking, an activity with which he became seriously involved only in the last year of his life. Although he had made several lithographs at the Tamarind Lithography Workshop and with Irwin Hollander, printmaking had not been a regular part of his practice. Knowing that Guston preferred to work at home, publisher Gemini G.E.L. sent a master printer to his Woodstock, New York, studio in 1980, resulting in twenty-five of his approximately forty known prints, including Coat. The previous year, he had suffered a near–fatal heart attack, and both his life and work were dominated by thoughts of his mortality. In Coat, perhaps a self-portrait, the figure stands strong but seems to be sinking in a choppy sea, weighed down by old shoes that symbolize a long and difficult journey through life.
International film festivals were a new phenomenon in the late 1920s, reflecting the significance of film as a modern art form that united avant-garde artists and designers from different countries. This poster for a festival in The Hague graphically represents the medium of film and the primacy of vision in modern culture. The strong orthogonal lines, geometric lettering, and primary colors reflect the enduring influence of the Dutch de Stijl movement within The New Typography. Zwart was one of several Dutch members of the Ring Neuer Werbegestalter (Circle of new advertising designers) and a close friend of Tschichold's.
Interstate is based on the font colloquially known as Highway Gothic, the official typeface of the American Federal Highway Administration, designed by Ted Forbes in 1949. Forbes was an engineer not a typographer, and the letterforms in the original Highway Gothic typeface are quirky—the awkward and incongruous descender of the lowercase g is a good example. "It's very American in that way—just smash it together and get it up there," Frere-Jones has said of Highway Gothic. Interstate was carefully designed as homage to Highway Gothic, its naïveté intentional.  Interstate has a familiar and recognizable feel, conveying the aesthetic of the American road and the excitement associated with the new interstate highway system of the Eisenhower era.
In the 1890s Van de Velde used the fashionable, highly stylized language of Art Nouveau to advertise a product as mundane as an egg-based protein extract. The late nineteenth century witnessed a revolution in industrial-food processing, starting with coffee, cocoa, and a range of meat and dairy products. Such processed foods and their burgeoning brand identities rapidly became integral to modern living, transforming traditional patterns of shopping, cooking, and at-home food storage.
In the 1960s, Bayrle developed a signature visual language of intricately patterned images. Drawing on his experience working in a weaving factory, he constructed tightly bound compositions, using images drawn from mass-media sources to create repeating rhythms. Exploring an optical play between figure and ground, Bayrle rendered his chosen icons—from a Volkswagen to film director Orson Welles—by tiling tiny pictures to generate both an overall pattern and a single image standing out against the background. This visual overload was a response to Germany's exploding consumer culture in the 1960s and to the ease of reproducing images in the medium of screenprint. Bayrle was an important figure in German Pop art, and his work has been of great interest to the Museum. Due to the scarcity of available works, until recently the collection contained only one print by Bayrle (VW Red, 1969); in 2010, the artist made a group of impressions available to MoMA from his personal archive.
In the 1960s Nauman frequently involved his body in his work, primarily through performance and sculptural casting. Despite the claim made by the title of this work, the holes in the now discolored layers of aluminum foil, plastic, foam rubber, and grease do not actually correspond to the artist's body. The materials and irregular format of this work contrast starkly with the often geometric, industrially produced Minimalist art many artists were making at this time.
In the 1980s Bourgeois began to construct enigmatic sculptural environments she calls "cells" that provide settings for her personal narratives. Here she explores the concept of the lair, a dwelling from the animal world. Bourgeois has said that a lair is "a protected place you can enter to take refuge," but she has also acknowledged the possibility of isolation: "The security of a lair can also be a trap."
In the 1990s, American artist Kara Walker revived the art of the cut-paper silhouette, popular in nineteenth-century portraiture. Walker transformed this medium to suit her more transgressive aims, using the spare elegance of the black forms to depict scatological and sexually explicit tableaux set in the Civil War South. Walker uses humor and horror to address cultural issues of race, gender, and power. Her characters are drawn from stereotypes and engage in taboo acts of sex, violence, and debasement. African/American, a linoleum-cut print, conflates lyrical lines and disturbing content to elicit a range of emotions and reactions. Walker described the seminude figure as "your essentialist-token slave maiden in midair."
In the blazing heat of this Mediterranean afternoon, nothing rests. Against a ground scored as if by some invisible torrent, intense green olive trees twist and crimp, capped by the rolling, dwindling hillocks of the distant Alps, beneath a light-washed sky with a bundled, ectoplasmic cloud.After van Gogh voluntarily entered the asylum at Saint-Rémy in the south of France in the spring of 1889, he wrote his brother Theo: "I did a landscape with olive trees and also a new study of a starry sky." Later, when the pictures had dried, he sent both of them to Theo in Paris, noting: "The olive trees with the white cloud and the mountains behind, as well as the rise of the moon and the night effect, are exaggerations from the point of view of the general arrangement; the outlines are accentuated as in some old woodcuts."Van Gogh's letters make it clear that he created this particular intense vista of the southern French landscape as a daylight partner to the visionary nocturne of his more famous canvas, The Starry Night. He felt that both pictures showed, in complementary ways, the principles he shared with his fellow painter Paul Gauguin, regarding the freedom of the artist to go beyond "the photographic and silly perfection of some painters" and intensify the experience of color and linear rhythms.
In the early 1930s, Picasso returned to sculptural modeling after a break of some twenty years. He had recently bought a château in Boisgeloup, forty miles outside Paris, and converted a stable on the property into a sculpture studio, catalyzing a period of intense sculptural production. Picasso's inspiration for Head of a Woman was his young companion, Marie-Thérèse Walter, whose features, he felt, lent themselves to representation in a classical mode. The sculpture was reproduced soon after its creation in the inaugural issue of the Surrealist journal Minotaure. The Surrealists claimed Picasso as one of their own, enchanted in part by his unruly and irreverent play with ideas of the classical.
In the early 1960s Conner led a nomadic existence, continuously creating drawings while living sporadically in Kansas, Massachusetts, and Mexico. The title of the earliest work here is a street address in Newton Center, Massachusetts, where the artist lived for three months in 1963. It is the first work in a series of intricate, meditative drawings Conner refers to as "mandalas." The density of twisting marks creates a sense of motion, as the black lines and white spaces take on equal weight. This optical play assumes a new form in his inkblot drawings, vertical or horizontal rows of accordion-like folds layered with inkblots. The seemingly uncontrollable spills are transformed into complexly structured shapes and assembled into orderly arrangements. Each individual inkblot resembles his earlier mandala designs on a more minute, intimate scale.
In the early 1960s Ferrari made work in two styles: gestural drip drawings with entangled line structures, and what he called "written paintings"—drawings as texts and texts as drawings—whose striking visual qualities made them iconic in early Latin American Conceptualism.  Through these two repertoires Ferrari was able to question the distinction between art and language—between pure visuality and codified information, and between graphic gesture and calligraphy. Untitled (after Rafael Alberti's Sermon of the Blood) was the piece that led Ferrari from gestural abstraction to his written paintings, and it therefore marks a turning point in his work. It was conceived as a visual interpretation of a poem by Rafael Alberti, a major Spanish modern poet and the artist's lifelong friend.
In the early 1960s Lichtenstein found a rich source of imagery in advertisements and comic strips. Reacting against the introspection of the Abstract Expressionist painters of the previous generation, he adopted the vocabulary of American consumer and popular culture and the impersonal look of mechanical reproduction. Tire is one of the artists many early black–and–white, single–object paintings of an ordinary commercial product. The prosaic tire, magnified, takes on the emblematic authority of an icon. Formally, the paintings impact depends on the complex interplay between the graphically rendered realism of a generic industrial object and the geometric form of the tire suspended in a void.
In the early 1960s Roth developed a visual system consisting of twenty-three images, each of which corresponds to one or two letters of the alphabet. The artist had a set of rubber stamps made from his sketches, which he used to produce about three hundred stamp drawings. Many of these are reproduced in this 1967 book, along with a key indicating which symbol corresponds to which letter of the alphabet, as well as additional writings and illustrations by Roth. The drawings could, in theory, be read as texts; however, Roth intentionally complicated their legibility by layering stamps on top of one another and asserting that each symbol had varying meanings, depending on the orientation in which it was stamped.
In the early 1970s Morton was part of a wave of feminism that significantly informed her work, which flaunts qualities stereotypically associated with women—bright colors and open sentiment—as well as motifs like bows and flowers. Yet her texts can hint at the underside of a prettified femininity. This work also breaks down barriers between painting and sculpture and generally dispenses with aesthetic authority. In fact, in a list of likes and dislikes, Morton cited "good taste" as something "I hate."
In the early 1980s, Levine gained recognition for works that critiqued the concept of originality. She and other "appropriation" artists of her generation created works of art by copying and manipulating sources from mass culture, questioning the role of the artist as sole author. Some artists, such as Cindy Sherman and Richard Prince, borrowed imagery from film and television. Levine chose the more exalted realm of art history as her starting point, restricting her sources to work created by twentieth-century male artists, a decision that stemmed from a feminist goal to undermine the myth of the modernist master.In this original drawing, Levine re-creates a 1920s abstraction by the Russian Suprematist artist El Lissitzky, faithfully imitating every line and detail. She turns the concept of originality on its head by copying directly from an artbook reproduction, bypassing the long tradition of art students copying from original artworks in museums—she refers to this practice by titling her drawing "after" El Lissitzky. Through this work and others, Levine questions the notion of art as a commodity to be bought and sold, asking whether, in a world of replicated images, any one person can really own or author a picture.
In the early 1980s NASA began exploratory designs for the interior of the International Space Station Habitation Module: a tiny, cramped area—thirteen feet in diameter—where six astronauts would live for several months in a weightless environment, orbiting three hundred nautical miles above the Earth. In addition to these design challenges, in zero gravity there is no stable point of view—no floor or ceiling, top or bottom, or fixed floor plan. The NASA planners who deal with astronauts environment, clothing, and food—called Human Factors Research—engaged Kalil, a New York-based educator, interior designer, and artist, to examine the quintessentially human qualities of the project, such as the psychological impact of sensory deprivation and monotony. Kalil attempted to define a new spatial language for space habitation. His project is visionary, and, in the words of the client, it is "poetic, lyrical, and gets away from the nuts and bolts type of engineering at NASA."
In the event of a large-scale emergency, when many communications and power infrastructures are down, this human-powered, battery-free radio can keep its user aware of the current situation. The Freeplay Foundation, a humanitarian organization that works mostly in Africa, sells this radio to subsidize the production of a sturdier version, the Lifeline radio, which has been conceived to operate in the harshest conditions and climates. The Lifeline radio is distributed for free to distant communities that have no access to electricity and cannot afford batteries. One great obstacle to the alleviation of poverty is isolation; radio can play a vital role in its capacity to reach people isolated by geography, conflict, or illiteracy, giving them access to information and education.
In The Forty Part Motet, the sublime glory that the divine has held in the imagination of believers for centuries is made palpable. Cardiff's installation is a reworking of a choral piece for forty male voices (bass, baritone, alto, tenor, and child soprano) by Tudor composer Thomas Tallis, which he likely composed to honor Queen Elizabeth I on her fortieth birthdayThe audio component of The Forty Part Motet is a fourteen-minute loop: eleven minutes of singing and three minutes of intermission. The voices of forty singers performing Spem in Alium Nunquam habui were each recorded separately and are played back in the installation via forty individual loudspeakers on tripods. The speakers are arranged in a large circle, and as visitors wander among them and progress through the work, they hear each distinct voice and also experience different combinations and harmonies. A visitor can stand in the middle of the installation and hear all forty voices as they unify into one musical piece or move close to an individual loudspeaker for an intimate experience with a single voice.
In the infancy of digital typography—as lead type, set by hand in heavy lead blocks or by machines that generated lines of metal type, was giving way to text set on screens—Crouwel saw an opportunity for an interesting experiment. Early computer screens—cathode ray tube (CRT) monitors—rendered images in fairly large pixels, making traditional curvilinear letterforms difficult to reconstruct, and so Crouwel set out to redesign the alphabet using only horizontal lines. New Alphabet is, in Crouwel's words, "over-the-top and never meant to be really used," a statement on the impact of new technologies on centuries of typographic tradition. In 1988, however, Peter Saville Associates used a stylized version of the font on the cover of Substance, an album for the band Joy Division. New Alphabet was digitized for contemporary use in 1997 by Freda Sack and David Quay of The Foundry, closely based on Crouwel's original studies.
In the iron sculpture For Gonzalez, di Suvero pays homage to Julio González, an artist he admired for his pioneering use of welded iron as a sculptural material in the first half of the twentieth century.
In the late 1960s and early 1970s, Gilbert and George were among the artists creating alternatives to traditional painting and sculpture. Donning conservative business suits, they became "living sculpture," giving performances and generally considering everything they did to be an artwork. They often poke fun at proper behavior in a deadpan fashion and include references to drunkenness, sexuality, and other bodily functions.
In the late 1960s and early 1970s, Gilbert & George were among the artists creating alternatives to traditional painting and sculpture. Donning conservative business suits, they became "living sculpture," giving performances and generally considering everything they did to be an artwork. They often poke fun at proper behavior in a deadpan fashion and include references to drunkenness, sexuality, and other bodily functions.
In the late 1960s, an expressway running across lower Manhattan, linking New Jersey to Brooklyn, Queens, and Long Island via the Holland Tunnel and the Manhattan and Williamsburg bridges, was under discussion. Paul Rudolph's proposed Y-shaped corridor was designed to leave the city's infrastructure intact, and suggested a new approach to city building, which claimed that transportation networks could bind rather than divide communities. At key points in the "transportation corridor" (central hub, bridge or tunnel entries) there were multilevel, stacking pedestrian plazas, people movers, and parking—all above and below existing bridge and rail systems. Tall, stepped-back residential buildings would provide light, air, and views, flanking the corridor at these gateways, and in conjunction with new building types, could become generators of urban space.
In the late 1960s Buren devised a signature visual device: alternating colored and white stripes, each exactly 8.7 centimeters wide (about 3.5 inches), the standard for stripes on commercial awning fabric.  Buren's "paintings" began to appear not only in art contexts but also in urban locations—on walls of buildings, in store windows, and in subway stations.  In 1977 Buren cut up one of his artworks from 1969 and made a new work, designating that the sections should hang in the corners of a wall, whether that wall was empty, had doors or windows, or even had other artworks hanging on it.
In the late 1960s, Toroni, and others of his generation working in Paris, reacted against the highly emotional and gestural style of painting that had preceded them. Toroni devised a conceptual approach and calls his systematic markings "imprints." He consistently uses a standard No. 50 paintbrush to determine the size of the strokes that he applies to canvas, paper, and walls, at intervals of 11.8 inches (30 centimeters). "It's the working method that defines what is seen," he has said.
In the late 1970s, Struth abandoned painting to study photography with Bernd and Hilla Becher, and his earliest photographic work—black-and-white views that invariably look straight down the middle of a city street—are consistent with the Bechers' highly systematic approach. After a few years, however, he realized that nothing but his own rules kept him from moving the camera and pointing it in any direction that seemed promising. Struth thus gave up the rigorous structure associated with Minimal and Conceptual art to explore the potentially infinite fluidity of photographic description.While Struth was vigorously developing other aspects of his work, he continued for many years to make modestly scaled, black-and-white views, adding to a body of work that eventually became global in scope. Despite the remarkable variety of architecture that appears in these pictures, they maintain a highly consistent style, equally attentive to the monumental and the minute. Here the artist's high vantage point and oblique angle of view concisely render the grand sweep of the modernist housing project and its man-made landscape while simultaneously enumerating its strangely uninhabited individual parts.
In the mid-1960s Serra began experimenting with nontraditional materials including fiberglass, neon, vulcanized rubber, and, later, lead. He combined his examination of these materials and their properties with an interest in the physical process of making sculpture. The result was a list of action verbs—"to roll, to crease, to curve"—that Serra compiled, listed on paper, and then enacted with the materials he had collected in his studio. This work, made from discarded rubber recovered from a warehouse in lower Manhattan, is a result of the rubber's unique response to the artist's enacting of the action verb "to lift." As Serra later explained, "It struck me that instead of thinking what a sculpture is going to be and how you're going to do it compositionally, what if you just enacted those verbs in relation to a material, and didn't worry about the results?"
In the mid-1960s there was a movement to redevelop Roosevelt Island, the narrow strip of land in the East River between Manhattan and Queens, which had been dedicated to hospitals, asylums, and prisons since the early nineteenth century. Rem Koolhaas and Elia Zenghelis entered a 1974 competition for the north end of the island, with a strategy to map elements, concepts, and typologies based on nearby Manhattan, in contrast to earlier plans, which had ignored the island's urban context. Thus, they literally extended the city grid between Seventy-first and Seventy-fifth streets to Roosevelt Island. As in Manhattan, Seventy-second Street was to be a main thoroughfare lined with shops and restaurants. Rows of "synthetic brownstones" made from glass, rock, plastic, marble, and aluminum were framed by highrise buildings situated so as to maximize the views.
In the midst of a storm at sea, attempting to board a life raft is extremely difficult. This raft, which is fitted with handles on either side and a step that extends below the surface of the water, enables the person at sea to grab the handles and raise her legs from the water without putting strain on her arms, which are used only for stability. The wide step allows the occupants of the life raft to lean out to help other people enter. The raft positions itself according to the direction of the wind and can be oriented by its occupants so that its opening faces the people swimming toward it.
In the Red Blue Chair, Rietveld manipulated rectilinear volumes and examined the interaction of vertical and horizontal planes, much as he did in his architecture. Although the chair was originally designed in 1918, its color scheme of primary colors (red, yellow, blue) plus black—so closely associated with the de Stijl group and its most famous theorist and practitioner Piet Mondrian—was applied to it around 1923. Hoping that much of his furniture would eventually be mass-produced rather than handcrafted, Rietveld aimed for simplicity in construction. The pieces of wood that comprise the Red Blue Chair are in the standard lumber sizes readily available at the time.Rietveld believed there was a greater goal for the furniture designer than just physical comfort: the well-being and comfort of the spirit. Rietveld and his colleagues in the de Stijl art and architecture movement sought to create a utopia based on a harmonic human-made order, which  they believed could renew Europe after the devastating turmoil of World War I. New forms, in their view, were essential to this rebuilding.
In the Savannah photographer's window there are fifteen blocks of fifteen pictures each, for a total of 225 portraits, less the ones hidden by the letters. Most of the sitters appear at least twice, but altogether there are more than one hundred different men, women, and children: a community. Evans explored the United States of the 1930s—its people, its architecture, its cultural symbols (including photographs)—with the disinterested eye of an archaeologist studying an ancient civilization. Penny Picture Display might be interpreted as a celebration of democracy or as a condemnation of conformity. Evans takes no side.The photograph is very much a modern picture—crisp, planar, and resolutely self-contained. But instead of reconfirming a timeless ideal, as artistically ambitious American photographers before Evans generally had aimed to do, it engages a contemporary particular, rooted in history. And it announces Evans's allegiance to the plainspoken vernacular of ordinary photographers, such as the Savannah portraitist who made the pictures in the window.
In the small bird's-eye panorama Kahn further developed his idea of a city surrounded by massive cylindrical parking towers defending the center-which he now called the "Forum"-from the onslaught of automobiles and the forces of decentralization that threatened human interaction. The historicism that was beginning to emerge in his work is evinced by the gateway towers, which explicitly recall ancient monuments such as the Roman Colosseum in various states of decay. Kahn's idealized drawing was clearly inspired by Piranesi's famous eighteenth-century views of Rome and imaginary buildings. Here, buildings in a variety of archetypal geometric forms populate the city center. Kahn believed that only by a centralization of buildings and activities, supported by a clear ordering of streets and traffic, would meaningful urban life be preserved.
In this brothel scene the characterization of the salacious sailor, based on Dix's observations during the war, suggests a transfer of military violence into brutal sexual aggression. Prostitution proliferated in Germany in the years following World War I, when poverty and widowhood left many women with no other recourse. It is a recurring theme in Dix's work of the 1920s, symbolizing societal depravity and corruption.
In this cityscape Derain rendered the customary gray of the London sky with dramatic color. In the summer of 1905 he developed this bright Fauvist palette while painting alongside his elder peer Henri Matisse in Collioure, France. There the two artists produced their most radical canvases to date—paintings purged of shadows and filled with the imaginative, unbridled colors also seen here. When several of these works were exhibited in Paris that fall, the public and critics found the palette startling and ridiculed their efforts. As Derain later recalled, “Fauvism was our ordeal by fire.... It was the era  of photography. This may have influenced us, and played a part in our reaction against anything  resembling a snapshot of life. No matter how far we moved away from things ... it was never far enough. Colors became charges of dynamite.”
In this collaborative collage, seven Surrealist artists and poets assembled an anthropomorphic form by stacking found printed images of mundane objects: an umbrella is the upper body, a trunk is the torso, and nested pots are two thighs, which one participant extended in pencil. The presence of the umbrella recalls a phrase the Surrealists adopted from the poet Comte de Lautréamont (born Isidore Ducasse) as an ideal description of the principle of juxtaposition: "As beautiful as the chance encounter of a sewing machine and an umbrella on an operating table."
In this diptych, Lozano has made a utilitarian object monumental. Filling the canvases with thick gestural brushwork, she has imbued the head of a hammer with a lifelike quality, its head inclined and its tines flopped back like rabbit ears. Traditionally, paintings of this scale were reserved for lofty subjects: episodes from history, important personages, and other edifying imagery. In this painting—and in others, of wrenches, clamps, and screwdrivers—Lozano weds the mundane with the grand: the hammer's head clamps down as if determined to deal a blow to convention and construct anew.
In this drawing, a thin roll of tallow with a wick, symbolizing an extinguished candle, is attached with two strips of white tape to a sheet of brown paper. The background is splattered with irregular dark blue smudges of paint that recall smudges of smoke. These irregular spots evoke marks made by the burning wick of the tallow cord. The work invites the viewer to question its very structure and the meaning of its unusual combination of composite elements.Always confrontational and forceful, yet beautiful and often poetic, Kounellis's work engages the viewer on several levels: visual, emotional, and physical.  It represents the artist's commentary on the surrounding reality and reflects his political attitudes. For example, his Fire installations of the late 1960s related his optimistic belief in revolutionary fervor, whereas the Smoke works of the early 1970s are symbolic of extinguished revolutionary zeal. According to Kounellis, "Smoke creates ghosts" and  is a metaphor for history and the passage of time.Kounellis's art is closely identified with the Italian Arte Povera movement of the mid-1960s. Encompassing both an aesthetic and a political dimension, the movement emphasized the use of everyday,  poor (povera) non-art materials raised to the level of art through the artist's intervention, thus attempting a merger of art and life.
In this drawing Nauman has recast the traditional clown puppets, known for their slapstick antics, as a naked couple simultaneously committing acts of sex and violence on each other and on themselves. The clown, whom Nauman has described as “an abstracted idea of a person,” frequently appears in his work of the 1980s, both provoking humor—often cruel or crude—and evoking horror. Here the actions of intertwined figures, drawn in simple, boldly colored lines, perversely suggest that violence is a current cycling through birth, life, sex, and death. This drawing relates to a series of flashing neon works Nauman made in the same year, with similar themes and figures.
In this evocation of a scene from the sixteenth-century romance Orlando Furioso, the knight Roger appears on his fiery steed to save the maiden Angelica from a horrible fate: the dragon, with its evil inner glow, is looming at the lower left. Tendrils of threatening mist curling up from below menace the maiden, while angry storm clouds hover above. The figures themselves are small and sketchily rendered; it is the picture's atmospheric effects, conveyed with light-and-dark contrasts and shots of dazzling color—including those of the imposing crag on which Angelica is stranded—that create the high drama of this tension-ridden scene.The young Redon is said to have watched the clouds scudding over the flat Bordeaux landscape where he was raised and imagined in them the fantastic beings that he would later conjure up in his paintings, drawings, lithographs, and pastels. Roger and Angelica, executed in the last period of his career, when color had bewitched him, exemplifies Redon's consummate ability to imbue his wildly imaginative fantasies with color, light, and shadow, using the mere strokes of a crayon.Although this work was created in the twentieth century, it reflects the Romanticism of the nineteenth century, in which feeling triumphed over form, and color was the primary vehicle of expression.
In this film a streetwise youth and petty criminal named Xiao Wu navigates the shattered neighborhoods of the remote provincial town Fenyang without a moral compass. Alienated from his increasingly entrepreneurial criminal colleagues, at odds with the police and his family, and shaken by the fleeting tenderness of a karaoke-bar hostess, his defenses are stripped away until he is forced to face the emptiness of his existence.Authentically performed by an amateur cast, this debut feature by independent filmmaker Jia begins as gritty social realism but gradually develops into a piercing character study and cultural critique set in the incisively documented landscape of contemporary China. The film dramatizes the festering influence of the black-market corruption that, it suggests, has spread through the whole of Chinese society. Ultimately, Jia goes beyond realism to achieve an existential and spiritual quality that may be compared to that of the work of French director Robert Bresson.
In this large sculpture, the white shell of a teahouse appears to have ruptured, revealing a space awash with the archaeological remnants of a tea ceremony. This enigmatic work, titled after the rules of Japanese tea ceremonies, alludes to Shinto tradition and tenets about the natural world and represents the symbiotic but troubled relationship between humans and nature.The sculpture is related to Barney's 2004 film Drawing Restraint 9, a collaboration with the Icelandic musician Björk. In the film the teahouse—on the Japanese whaling ship Nisshin Maru—is the site of an elaborate tea ceremony and a visceral love scene between Barney and Björk. A storm shakes the ship, and the teahouse is flooded with petroleum jelly. The partially submerged couple undergoes a violent and ritualized metamorphosis into whales.To make this symbolic sculpture, Barney cast the teahouse in petroleum jelly. When it collapsed he cast the remains in thermoplastic, a durable industrial material. Thus the artist conceived a transformative process analogous to the harvesting and processing of whales and, particularly, to the extraction of oil from blubber. The film and sculpture both address the intersection of artistic, biological, and industrial transformations epitomized by imagery of the whale harvest.
In this lithograph, blood drips from the mouth of a bust of Marianne, who personifies France and is identifiable by her conical Phrygian cap, an ancient symbol of liberty. The French Revolution's idealistic slogan, "Liberty, equality, and fraternity," is scrawled on the bust's base in blood red, distorted into "Liberty, equality, and fratricide." The print expresses Oskar Kokoschka's fear that with a series of bloody clashes that began in November 1918, post–World War I Germany was descending into civil war. The strife in fact would lead to the overthrow of Germany's imperial government and its eventual replacement with a republic. Although Kokoschka initially associated with artists of the revolutionary November Group, he did not join them and asked that they not list him as a supporter. Kokoschka's depiction of a blood-smeared artwork proved prophetic: a year after this lithograph appeared, street fighting in Dresden caused damage to a painting in the city's Zwinger museum. Kokoschka made a public statement imploring his countrymen to take their political battles away from cultural sites, bringing upon himself the criticism that he cared more about art than about people.
In this monumental drawing, Banner narrates a detailed portrait of a nude woman, calling attention to the act of viewing and critiquing the ubiquity of the female nude in the history of art. "Using words as opposed to line and color is a way of being able, on my own personal turf, to reinvent the nude," Banner has said. Faintly visible in the background is a shadowy image of an airplane's tail fin—the remnant of a larger series in which the artist worked with descriptions and actual parts of fighter planes and helicopters. Banner, a member of the Young British Artist cohort that emerged in London in the 1990s, is interested in the intersection of war and beauty in Western cultural memory.
In this painting, Vuillard's mother and sister are depicted at home. A widow who had supported her family by running her own business, his mother commands a powerful presence. Her pose is solid and stable, her dress is the painting's largest unbroken form, and her face and hands stand out against browns and blacks, and against the extraordinary trapezoid of mottled color that describes the room's wallpaper. Her daughter, by contrast, almost disintegrates into this surface, as if its dots had temporarily organized themselves into the checkered pattern of her dress. Pressing herself awkwardly against the wall, she bends her head and shoulders, apparently greeting a visitor but also, it seems, forced to bow if she is to fit in the picture's frame.Intimate in scale, this scene is deceptively casual. Relying on imaginative insight as well as on the direct observation prized by the Impressionists, Vuillard constructs a psychologically suggestive space: the table, the bulky chest of drawers, the overactive wallpaper, and the steeply rising perspective of the floor make a crowded container for the figures, and the claustrophobia this suggests is heightened by slightly leaning angles, an imperfectly centered composition, and the daughter's off-balance posture. The whole space seems apt to fall inward at Mme. Vuillard—a dominating, even oppressive force in the room (and, we suspect, in the family); she is also the gravitational principle that prevents a collapse.
In this performance Rosler takes on the role of an apron-clad housewife and parodies the television cooking demonstrations popularized by Julia Child in the 1960s. Standing in a kitchen, surrounded by refrigerator, table, and stove, she moves through the alphabet from A to Z, assigning a letter to the various tools found in this domestic space. Wielding knives, a nutcracker, and a rolling pin, she warms to her task, her gestures sharply punctuating the rage and frustration of oppressive women's roles. Rosler has said of this work, "I was concerned with something like the notion of 'language speaking the subject,' and with the transformation of the woman herself into a sign in a system of signs that represent a system of food production, a system of harnessed subjectivity."
In this photocollage, created to raise awareness about hunger, Kémeny (a Holocaust survivor) and Sós (her husband) juxtaposed deprivation and comfort through images of starving children and a healthy girl with her pampered pet. Such graphics often blur the boundary between global aid and commercialism, with designers drawing on the conventions of one to enhance the impact of the other.
In this photomontage, Baader presents a photograph of a domestic space in which various Dada ephemera hangs on the wall at upper left. A figure has been cut out of the center of the photograph to reveal the image of Baader's dummy exhibited at the Berlin Dada Fair in 1920. This work is, in fact, a sophisticated self-portrait of Baader in his persona as the "Oberdada," a parody of a high-ranking military figure (ex. Oberleutnant) of the Dada "troupes." The figure cut out of the upper photograph can be identified as Baader himself, as his reflection is visible in the mirror at the right edge of the cutout.
In this picture, as in many of Álvarez Bravo's photographs, our experience begins with the theme of looking: we must wonder what it is that the girl sees, or what she seeks. It has been suggested that her awkwardly placed feet, with one foot atop the other as she stands on her toes, evokes the figures in Mexican reliefs and carvings made before the Spanish conquest, and that the girl, dressed in traditional Mexican costume, may be interpreted as representing a Mexico searching for its past through the window in the well-worn wall. Clearly, the picture was staged, and we know that the photographer has intentionally provoked our curiosity. Photography has an inherent power to create mystery because it only describes aspects of things and never tells the whole story. In the hands of a skillful photographer, this capacity to intrigue can become the foundation of an aesthetic, a way of working. Throughout his seventy-five-year career, the Mexican photographer Álvarez Bravo consistently made deeply human photographs rife with enigma.
In this portfolio, made three years after the revolutionary upheavals of 1919, Berlin is a city of disillusioned people quietly resigned to their fates. The rich play cards, attend the theater, and while away the hours in boredom. The poor beg on the street and enjoy the momentary distractions of a dive. Beckmann compressed his scenes into tight, windowlike frames that barely contain their inhabitants, creating a sense of claustrophobia and discord. He lived in Frankfurt but visited the capital in 1922 to create these prints, which he conceived as a sequel to his portfolio Hell (1919).
In this poster advertising a Deutsche Werkbund exhibition, strong standardized letterforms designed for infinite repetition act like building blocks of the new architecture. Sansserif type not only seemed elemental and efficient but was also thought to reveal an abstract beauty that was inherent in simple letterforms. "We require from type plainness, clarity, the rejection of everything that is superfluous," wrote Tschichold. "A good letter is one that expresses itself, or rather 'speaks,' with the utmost distinctiveness and clarity."
In this print Muafangejo details the environs of the school at Rorke's Drift, where he was enrolled as a fine art student. The print captures the geographical features of the Buffalo River, the river crossing known as Rorke's Drift, and the vitality of daily life in the area, with residents of rural and urban settings. Muafangejo's use of text makes clear the historic divide between Natal (the province with the most forced removals of black people in South Africa during apartheid) and Zululand (the former territory of the Zulu Kingdom, renamed KwaZulu and designated for black occupation by the apartheid government).
In this radical lithograph, her first, Smith used imprints and photocopies of her own hair, face, and neck, along with a "Cher" wig, to create a wild, dynamic linear web. This print was one of the first in which she used her own body as part of the printmaking process. It signaled the uniquely inventive and sculptural approach that would characterize much of Smith's work at ULAE.
In this satirical series, Ensor updated a traditional theme of Christian morality. In the first sheet, Death, in the form of a winged skeleton, embraces seven figures that personify the seven deadly sins. In each of the subsequent sheets, the artist depicted his contemporaries engaged in each vice: gluttony, sloth, pride, anger, avarice, envy, and lust. A small skeleton or devil mocks the obscene, feckless behavior of the central characters. This set of prints is particularly rare; it is in pristine condition and its colors are fresh because it was preserved in the original collector's album.
In this searing self-portrait, Kollwitz homes in tightly on her face, isolating her careworn features and grave expression. Brooding introspection permeates Kollwitz's work, which is, at its core, an expression of compassion for her fellow man, especially for the suffering of women, children, and the poor in Germany during the cataclysmic years before, during, and after the two world wars. She dedicated herself to printmaking, believing that it was the medium best suited to social and political commentary. Self-portraiture was an important recurring subject in her oeuvre, and these intense, almost confrontational images are particularly powerful examples. This woodcut and a lithograph, acquired in 2012, join an etching, already in the collection, to create a dramatic group of self-portraits from three different decades in three different mediums—each of which, in its own way, conveys the force of the artist's self-scrutiny over the course of her career.
In this searing self-portrait, Kollwitz homes in tightly on her face, isolating her careworn features and grave expression. Brooding introspection permeates Kollwitz's work, which is, at its core, an expression of compassion for her fellow man, especially for the suffering of women, children, and the poor in Germany during the cataclysmic years before, during, and after the two world wars. She dedicated herself to printmaking, believing that it was the medium best suited to social and political commentary. Self-portraiture was an important recurring subject in her work, and this intense, almost confrontational image is a particularly powerful example....
In this series of diagnostic tools, trained bees perform health checkups, detect diseases, and monitor fertility cycles. “Bees have a phenomenal odor perception,” Soares has explained. Fertility Object has three chambers: the largest corresponds to ovulation, the second to the pre-ovulation period, and the third to post-ovulation.
In this series of diagnostic tools, trained bees perform health checkups, detect diseases, and monitor fertility cycles. “Bees have a phenomenal odor perception,” Soares has explained. Precise Object has an outer curved tube that prevents bees from flying accidentally into the interior diagnosis chamber, making for a more precise result.
In this series of diagnostic tools, trained bees perform health checkups, detect diseases, and monitor fertility cycles. "Bees have a phenomenal odor perception," Soares has explained. The Face Object has two chambers. If bees detect an odor in the breath connected to a disease, they will go into the smaller chamber. The Fertility Object has three chambers: the largest corresponds to ovulation, the second to pre-ovulation, and the third to post- ovulation. The Precise Object has an outer curved tube that prevents bees from flying accidentally into the interior diagnosis chamber, making for a more precise result.
In this spare, understated composition, Puryear's fine webbed lines have been rendered with a slightly wavering hand, a tangible record of the artist's sensitive employment of the etching needle. One of approximately twenty-five prints Puryear has made to date, the work demonstrates his predilection for direct, physical mediums such as etching and woodcut, which involve the process of scratching or digging into metal or wood. Its abstracted form recalls the artist's better-known sculptural works in wire or latticed wood strips, and the evocative shape echoes their frequent bird- or molelike references. A related detail etched delicately in red at the upper left transforms this otherwise iconic presentation of the main figure into something like a freehand sketch, reinforcing a sense of spontaneity. With its clean lines and organic shape suggesting both a natural form and a useful object, such as a vessel or musical instrument, this print reflects the wide range of influences that inform Puryear's overall oeuvre. These include a lifelong aptitude for carpentry, an affinity for various craft traditions, and an early fascination with subjects as diverse as ornithology, archery, and Native American history. As a young man Puryear spent two years working for the Peace Corps in Sierra Leone, where he developed a profound respect for the wood-carvers of that region. He later enrolled in the printmaking program at Sweden's Royal Academy of Art, and while there found himself drawn to Scandinavian wood carving. Upon his return to the United States, in the late 1960s, he studied fine art at Yale University, absorbing the current developments in Minimalism, earthworks, and site-specific sculpture. Blending modernist abstraction with a commitment to handcraftsmanship, Puryear's work is remarkable for the sheer beauty that comes from its exacting manipulation of materials and techniques.
In this study for Bather (1908–09), Picasso concentrated on the figure, not yet placing her in the seaside setting seen in the final painting. Expanding on his innovations in Les Demoiselles d'Avignon (1907), he radically restructured female anatomy, rendering it in a series of arcs and curves and simultaneously depicting both the visible and invisible sides of the body. This fusion of frontal, profile, and rear views is particularly evident in the figures face. Within the oval, Picasso drew facial features frontally and in profile, investing the figure with a duality that would, decades later, become a prominent motif in his art.
In this triptych Kelly has choreographed three shaped canvases into a subtle dance of color and form. A dynamic rhythm is created by the contrast between triangular and trapezoidal forms, the irregular spacing and positioning of the shapes, and the play of curved and straight edges.In 1991 Kelly reflected on his shaped canvases: "When you make a line or mark on a panel, you are involved in depiction, and what I wanted expressed was the form of the painting itself . . . the wall became the ground and the panels became the marks on the wall." These highly saturated monochromatic panels revise the traditional relationship between figure and ground and blur the distinction between painting and sculpture by simultaneously invoking qualities associated with both
In this untitled painting, New York–based artist Bob Kane depicted a table with anemones and wine glasses in front of his studio window, which shows a view of the Hudson River. This is a scene that he has painted over fifty times since the 1960s, with the details and quality of light changing with the time of day and the season. Here, Kane simplified the details of his scene, eliminated shadow, and emphasized the flatness of the picture plane.
In this video a 360-degree continuously flowing single take reveals the scene that is forever frozen in Diego Velázquez's well-known painting Las Meninas of 1656. The work depicts the young princess of Spain—the Infanta—and her companions with Velázquez himself, shown painting, in the Salon of the Alcázar in the Palace of the Hapsburgs. The faint images of King Philip IV and his wife, Mariana of Austria, are reflected in a mirror at the back of the room. The camera's brilliantly choreographed gaze discovers these figures as well as the action beyond the canvas. The king and queen are not only replicated in the mirror but preside over the scene, revealing what Velázquez and the Infanta, in the painting, appear to focus on outside the image (a space that has been the subject of critical debate for over 350 years).Of the relationship between 89 Seconds at Alcázar and Velázquez's painting, Sussman has written, "You look at that painting and you think, 'This is the first cinema verité moment.' It has the feeling of a snapshot, as if the Infanta could walk out and come back again. And you think, if this is a film still, then there is a still that came before, and one that came after. It was that simple. There's no big conceptual sort of rumination other than that."
In this video installation, a low, transparent yellow Plexiglas maze, divided into many chambers, rests on the floor in the center of a darkened gallery. Monitors of different sizes occupy the two ends of the maze. They face the structure, while a video projector placed on a crate beams images onto an adjacent wall. All three video streams alternately display recorded images of a rat trapped within the maze and a teenage boy frantically playing the drums, interspersed with live images fed by a scanning video camera that surveys the now-empty maze. (Depending on the placement of the camera, it may also transmit images of the legs of passing viewers.)The drums are loud, the equipment is devoid of visual pleasure, the maze is sharp-cornered and sickly yellow, and the signs of frustrated habit in the movements of both the boy and the rat are painfully similar. Nauman culled the title phrase from an article published in Scientific American in 1987 titled "Stressed Out: Learned Helplessness in Rats Sheds Light on Human Depression." Here the artist parodies a laboratory experiment and questions the social and scientific belief that human nature can be improved through controlled environments and behavioral retraining.
In this video installation, eleven large translucent screens are arranged to form a Greek cross around a space containing a circular bench. Projections appear at the far ends of three of the rooms created by the screens: in alternating narratives a young woman walks through a city, plays handball, and stands in front of open water; a man works in a helicopter factory and at one point begins to tap dance; a different man strolls through a city and stands near the water; a younger man walks through a city; a seated older man chants loudly; and a couple with a baby walks near a harbor.The work draws out the compositional similarities between four urban areas, using city nightscapes, street and traffic lights, and architectural settings to make them seem to be parts of one heterogeneous megalopolis.The broken narrative creates a logic that is not based on a recognizable pattern; three different screens each show fragments of four narratives that are constantly recombined with no visible loop, pattern, or repetitive plot. Because the screens are made of translucent material, the images are visible inside and outside the structure, allowing the viewer to move freely in the environment while experiencing the work. This arrangement suits the installation, which is less about duration than it is about simultaneity, symmetry, lack of hierarchy, and the validity of any given scene at any given time.
In this woodcut, illustrating the creation story in the Book of Genesis, Franz Marc has dissolved all but the last vestiges of the recognizable world. From this clean slate, new life—pure and uncorrupted—emerges from a chaotic and dynamic swirl of interlocking forms. By spring 1914, when he made Schöpfungsgeschichte II (Genesis II), Marc had lost his earlier faith that the natural world could provide an antidote to what he viewed as a sick society. In a letter, he wrote that animals—until then his most prominent subjects, symbolizing joyous rebirth—aroused "so much antipathy and so much ugliness that my depictions instinctively (from an inner compulsion) became ever more schematic and abstract."Marc was influenced by his close studies of early printed Bibles, and especially their woodcut illustrations. He planned to include this print in an illustrated Bible he was organizing for the Blaue Reiter, the Munich-based artist group he cofounded, although the outbreak of World War I scuttled the project.
In this woodcut manifesto, Brücke artists "call together all youth. . . . in opposition to older, well established powers. Whoever renders directly and authentically that which impels him to create is one of us." Brücke artists also used woodcuts to embellish the annual reports, exhibition announcements, and catalogues they sent to "passive members"—patrons who supported the group through annual donations.
In this work a soccer player dematerializes into a luminous and flickering atmosphere, save for his firmly sculpted calf, at center. Here Boccioni offered a demonstration of a principle he articulated in his 1910 text "Technical Manifesto of Futurist Painting": "To paint a human figure you must not paint it; you must render the whole of its surrounding atmosphere . . . movement and light destroy the materiality of bodies." With stippled brushwork and kaleidoscopic color, the painting communicates the spirited energy of a youthful athlete.
In this work Camargo highlights an optical and kinetic aesthetic without denying the natural features of material roughness: the artist has inserted one of his signature reliefs into the massive, elemental presence of a raw piece of wood. The raw material functions as a sculptural body, supporting the beautiful, vibrating surfaces typical of Camargo's repertoire. A dialogue is established between the body of the sculpture and its surface, between the organic textures of nature and the carefully crafted ornaments of art.
In this work Johns plays with perceptual cues, posing the linguistic against the visual by mismatching the words for colors with the inks they are printed in—for example, writing the word "yellow" in blue ink. Johns printed a second composition in grays and black using the same stones, a strategy that became one of his common practices in printmaking.
In this work, made while he was teaching at the Bauhaus, Moholy-Nagy explored the intersection of abstract elements in abstract space. Broken forms, in varying degrees of transparency, slide past each other on illusory spatial planes, illustrating the artist's longtime interest in the function and effects of light. In these years Moholy-Nagy also experimented with photography—a medium closely aligned with the credo of the Bauhaus: "Art and Technology: A New Unity." These photographic investigations informed his painting process, which he reimagined as an art not of pigment but of light. This kind of cross-medium exploration was strongly encouraged at the Bauhaus, where a broad range of workshops in the fine and applied arts helped to shape productive relationships among faculty and students working in diverse media.
In Three Transitions, Campus presents three introspective self-portraits that incorporate his dry humor. He begins with an image created by two cameras facing opposite sides of a paper wall and filming simultaneously. His back to one camera, Campus cuts through the paper. In the double image, it appears as if he is cutting through his back, which is both disconcerting and tongue-in-cheek. Campus then uses the "chroma–key effect" of superimposing one video image onto a similarly colored area of another image. He applies blue paint to his face, and during this process another image of himself is revealed; he then superimposes his image on a piece of blue paper, which he sets afire. As Three Transitions moves between deadpan humor and seeming self-destruction, Campus explores the limits of visual perception as a measure of reality.Faces and masks have long been subjects in art, but, with the advent of television, these analytical discursive figures intimately entered our daily lives. Campus's video art is concerned with exploring the subtle balance between remote but penetrating and formal, but unsettling, elements.
Intolerance is one of the cinema's earliest formal masterpieces. Its ambitious scale and lavish production—exemplified by the enormous, if historically inaccurate, set for the court of Babylon—were unprecedented at the time. The film was to serve as a mighty sermon against the hideous effects of intolerance; in it, Griffith proposed his view of history and myth. Intolerance interweaves his unfinished work, "The Mother and the Law,"a contemporary melodrama about the hypocrisy of well-off do-gooders set in the United States, with three parallel stories of earlier times: Christ at Calvary, the razing of Babylon by Persians, and the persecution of the Huguenots in France. Griffith explained the film: "The stories begin like four currents looked at from a hilltop. At first the four currents flow apart, slowly and quietly. But as they flow, they grow nearer and nearer together, and faster and faster, until in the end, in the last act, they mingle in one mighty river of expressed emotion."The scale and extravagance of Intolerance brought Hollywood to the fore as the center for American film production. The film also exercised enormous international influence, particularly in post-Revolutionary Russia, where Lenin commended the scope and purpose of the film. But the complexity of the structure seemed to baffle early audiences, and Intolerance was a box-office failure, although Griffith's previous film, The Birth of a Nation (1915), had been a great success.
Invited by the title of this sculpture to expect a description of a human torso, the viewer may notice a striking absence of the solid body that lies below the shoulders, at least in a living being. Basing the piece on the shoulder-bone structure of a male torso, Moore actually made a simplified skeleton. The shapes of bones fascinated Moore. He was also one of the many artists of his generation who wanted to escape the classical tradition—in his words, to remove "the Greek spectacles from the eyes of the modern sculptor"—and who therefore studied objects of many eras and areas, from Cycladic art to pre-Columbian art to the African and Oceanic art of relatively recent times. "Keep ever prominent the world tradition-the big view of Sculpture," Moore once wrote, and the near-abstract forms of his art show how far he left classical naturalism behind.In its scale and weight, Large Torso evokes a natural form—perhaps an arch of wind-smoothed rock. The word Arch in the work's title also asks viewers to look at that central vacancy, as important formally as the solid bronze. Stripping the skeleton of flesh, and melding it with landscape, Moore gives his work the sense of having been shaped by the long passage of time. Large Torso: Arch. 1962-63
Iscapes (Information-scapes) 1.0 exemplifies the expansion of architecture into the digital realm in the late 1990s, condensing in its narration the potential of the digital design process. The digital video player, like a jewel box, discloses looping footage of commonplace objects fluidly mutating into buildings and back again. The New Yorkbased architects who created Iscapes have described it as “consumable architectures for a digital culture, neither appliance nor building.”
Isolated fragments of displaced body parts juxtaposed with collage elements and geometric planes of color comprise this unconventional military portrait. The "reservist" refers to an army-trained officer under the age of forty-three, who, like the artist, was liable to be called up in the event of war. A dominant blue square floats in place of the face one might expect. For Malevich, the form of the square embodied physical and spiritual qualities: "The square is not a subconscious form. It is the creation of intuitive reason. It is the face of the new art."
Italian artist Alighiero e Boetti's work explores the order and disorder of communication systems. This work is part of his series of monumental ballpoint pen drawings, for which he invented a code. Reading the commas from left to right in relation to the vertical alphabet at the far left, one can decipher words for the five senses in Italian: vedere (to see), udire (to hear), odorare (to smell), gustare (to taste), toccare (to touch), and a sixth added by Boetti, pensare (to think).
ITC Galliard is a modern revival of the historical serif typefaces French typographer Robert Granjon designed in the sixteenth century. The goal, Carter has said, was to "make a serviceable, contemporary, photocomposition typeface based on a strong historical design . . . not a literal copy of any one of Granjon's faces—more a reinterpretation of his style." ITC Galliard is named for a popular renaissance dance, alluding not only to the time period in which Granjon worked but also to the playful choreography of his letterforms. The typeface is known in particular for its distinctive small capitals and its exaggerated characters and ligatures.
It is no accident that this picture has the slick feel of a Hollywood production or a magazine ad. DiCorcia casts, poses, lights, and frames his photographs with the same attention to detail that is lavished on a scene in a movie. The key difference is that his still dramas have no beginnings or endings, only middles, for which we are invited to write the scripts.In diCorcia's earlier work the protagonists were mainly friends, deployed in familiar domestic settings; this picture belongs to a later series made in a Hollywood neighborhood frequented by male prostitutes, drug addicts, and drifters, whom the photographer hired to pose. The photographer asked each man for his name, age, and place of birth, and titled the picture with the answer, followed by the amount he paid the subject to pose.The high artifice of diCorcia's photographs keeps us from reading the series as a straightforward record of a Hollywood street culture. In this sense, his work is representative of a widespread contemporary sensibility that has become weary or suspicious of the earnest realism of documentary photography. Nevertheless, the series gives us a picture of a world as persuasive as any we know from a traditional documentary project—and as moving.
It is only a dirty plate-glass window, but it is a barrier all the same. The nondescript scene beyond is out of focus because the photographer, instead, has focused, literally, on the window and its ugly mark, perhaps the remains of a poster that has been ripped from the glass.Schmidt was born in Berlin five months after the German surrender ended World War II in Europe. In 1961, when he was sixteen, the city was decisively split into East and West by the feuding victors of the war, and so it remained until 1989. Although he had lived for a time in East Berlin, Schmidt came of age in the West, where he photographed the city's neighborhoods in a sober style ultimately derived from the American documentary tradition.This picture belongs to a series of the mid-1980s in which Schmidt abandoned the reserve of his earlier style and radically narrowed the scope of his views so as to deepen their symbolic and emotional force. The Berlin Wall appears in some of the pictures; its presence is felt in all of them. When the Wall came down a few years later, Germans on both sides discovered that the rift Schmidt had evoked still divided them.
"I try to show," Bearden said, "that when some things are taken out of the usual context and put in the new, they are given an entirely new character." A strategy of fragmentation and recombination informs Bearden's approach to art-making. The reclining figure at the center of the work resembles those of Egyptian tomb reliefs and its flattened pictorial space recalls Cubist painting. The background is made from collaged fabric that the artist has assembled into a patchwork quilt, invoking a distinctive African American domestic tradition.
It was hard to resist touching the Divisumma 18 calculator when it first appeared on the market. Produced by Olivetti, for whom Bellini began working as a chief industrial design consultant in 1963, it proved to be enormously popular. The Divisumma 18 was small and portable, in contrast to earlier computing machinery, much of which looked like heavy cabinetry. The keyboard, with its nipplelike buttons, is encased in Bellini's typical rubber skin, which in this design is a playful yellow.In the 1960s, Bellini began his career at a turning point in the history of twentieth-century design: the transition from mechanical to microelectronic technology. To accommodate rapidly changing technology and increasing miniaturization, new products had to be designed. Bellini was able to link the necessities of the developing electronics industry to contemporary visual culture by emphasizing tactile qualities and taking advantage of the expressive possibilities of such new materials as plastic. Bellini made industrial products desirable by injecting into his designs subtle anthropomorphic references, which stimulate emotional responses. Plastic, leather, or rubber, for example, may have the sensual properties of human skin.
"It was my dream to make public pictures that could be seen by as many people as possible," Cies´lewicz said. "Hence the top importance of the poster—the street picture." At a time when the dictates of Socialist Realism conventionalized the human figure and required a relentlessly optimistic image of the future, posters for theater and film were able to adopt a more abstract and psychological approach.
It was not until he was forty-one, after a career in the wine business, that Jean Dubuffet turned decisively to art, and, during the next forty years he became a prolific painter, sculptor, printmaker, and experimental writer. With no systematic training, he railed against prevailing notions of good taste and official culture, preferring the spontaneous energy of graffiti and the art of children and the mentally ill. In postwar Paris, Dubuffet worked in a style called l'art brut, depicting fanciful figures in everyday activities that seem irrational, given his flattened perspectives, crude drawing, and unexpected juxtapositions. Dubuffet began making prints in the mid-1940s, achieving a total output of some fifteen hundred works, many for illustrated books. In the process he revolutionized lithography. His experimentation with surface texture is visible even in the early Matière et mémoire of 1944-45 in which he scratched the lithographic stones with sandpaper, rubbed them with rags, and used other unconventional materials to achieve the varied effects he desired. Dubuffet's unorthodox approach to lithography reached its zenith with the Phenomena series of 1957-62, comprising three hundred sixty-two compositions sorted into twenty-four albums. Here, working at five different workshops he maintained for the project, he created an alternative universe that seems to capture ever-changing forces of nature. Turning an established technique of drawing with crayon and brush into an improvisational event, he sought the effects of chance and accident by impressing dirt, fruit peelings, and leaves onto his printing surfaces, dragging across burning rags, and spilling chemicals onto them. He also cut up his Phenomena compositions, reassembling elements for new works such as Carrot Nose and La Lunette farcie. Although his active engagement with printmaking ended with the Phenomena series, Dubuffet eventually worked in screenprint to capture the imagery of his final L'Hourloupe phase. This invented word signified a schematic, jigsaw-puzzle-like figuration of black outlines discovered when the artist was doodling. An early manifestation in photolithography can be seen in the small illustrated book Trémolo sur l'oeil.
It was through contact with Surrealist poets and painters in Paris in the 1920s that Joan Miró evolved his visual language of signs. With curvilinear lines and biomorphic shapes, he sought to meld the realm of the unconscious to essential life forms, veering toward abstraction but always maintaining links to humanity, nature, and the cosmos. Miró's relationship to printmaking was tentative at first, with benefit prints such as Daphnis and Chloé for the periodical Minotaure, and Woman and Dog in Front of the Moon for an association of artists in Barcelona. It was when he was introduced to the painter Louis Marcoussis, who maintained a printshop in his studio, that he took up printmaking in earnest, and his natural inclinations toward new tools and materials blossomed. His methodical working process also suited these efforts, and prints of the Black and Red Series, created there, demonstrate his systematic use of more than one copperplate and his experiments with color inking. In the example here a symbolic family group responds in terror to a monstrous head, referring to Miró's anguish over the Spanish Civil War and the fear provoked by Generalissimo Francisco Franco at that time. Miró continued his exploration of intaglio techniques at Stanley William Hayter's Atelier 17 workshop in New York in the 1940s, when he was there on an extended visit. Soon after, he began his active involvement with lithography through the instigation of his Parisian dealer Aimé Maeght, making numerous individual prints, as well as posters, invitations, catalogue covers, and even holiday cards. He also turned increasingly to illustrated books, a format he had attempted earlier in his career, and created twentieth-century landmarks like À Toute épreuve, seen here. Further discoveries followed, with Miró making more than two thousand prints in all, always expanding his creativity through his love of technique and process.
It was within the artists' group Brücke (Bridge), founded in 1905, that Ernst Ludwig Kirchner formulated his views on art and established a visual language. Together with other core members—Erich Heckel, Karl Schmidt—Rottluff, Max Pechstein, and, briefly, Emil Nolde-Kirchner sought a new spirit of freedom and authenticity that rejected both the stultifying traditions of the academy and the restrictive conventions of bourgeois society. Brücke artists felt that art could respond to essential life forces with spontaneity and immediacy through such subjects as the nude in nature or figures dancing with frenzy and abandon. Sharing studios and models, teaching each other techniques, and even vacationing together, they evolved a common style that first embraced the fluidity of Fauvism and then turned to the energy and angularity of tribal art for inspiration.Printmaking was fundamental to Brücke activities, and annual portfolios of prints were published to help the artists gain recognition and produce income. For the most part, however, members' prints were experimental in nature and made with only a few proof impressions. Kirchner continued this unstructured approach to printmaking even after the dissolution of Brücke in 1913, eventually creating some two thousand works, primarily in his own studio. During World War I, after briefly training in the mounted artillery, Kirchner suffered a mental collapse. His depiction as an isolated figure is seen here in Evening Patrol of 1915. His series of prints of this period, entitled Schlemihl Meets His Shadow, is also considered the embodiment of his anxiety and paranoia, conditions that would continue to plague him, along with ill health, for the remainder of his life. In 1938, after being ostracized from German art circles by the Nazis, and having hundreds of his paintings removed from museums and declared "degenerate," Kirchner ended his own life.
"I want to put the viewer on shaky ground," Acconci has said, "so he has to reconsider himself and his circumstances." Adjustable Wall Bra prompts just this doubt. One possible reflexive response to it, sexual desire, is mocked by the work's size; another reduces us to infants dwarfed by their mother. Yet nothing says that the giantess implicit here is unfriendly. In fact the work is wittily accommodating.Hinged in the center, the bra can be variously installed: both cups against the wall; one against the wall, one hanging outward, or on the wall adjoining; one cup on the wall, the other on the floor, or bridging wall and floor, or bulging from the ceiling. The cups are lined with canvas, and you can sit in them; and on the floor they suggest a tent or igloo. Its form invokes clothing, its scale evokes both furniture and architecture, and the work itself speaks of physical shelter. Even as its size disconcerts, its humor reassures: the cups light up, and built-in speakers broadcast steady breathing.A former performance artist, Acconci is acutely attuned to the politics of the human body. Here he applies outsize scale (a strategy used by Pop artist Claes Oldenburg in his soft sculptures of the 1960s) to induce awkwardness-he may invite you to sit, but you will feel self-conscious if you do.
Jacob El Hanani employs micrography, an ancient art form in which tiny letters are used to create geometric and abstract designs. With these minuscule marks, El Hanani builds a pattern of cross-hatchings, basic shapes, and vertical or horizontal lines, taking as little as a few months or as long as a year to finish a drawing. In Jacob El Hanani, the artist explored the potential of his own signature as a creative motif by repeatedly writing his name in Hebrew, densely packing the surface of the composition with the cursive letters in a weavelike structure.
[Jacques Lipchitz?]Mr. and Mrs. Pierre Chareau, Paris, then in U.S.A. Before 1939 – 1951Buchholz Gallery (Curt Valentin), New York (agent for Chareau). 1949 – 1951The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Purchased from Chareau through Buchholz Gallery, with Mrs. Simon Guggenheim Fund, 1951
Jake Berthot's early painting—including such shaped canvases as Greenpoint, with its irregular corners—was inspired by Minimalist art and geometric principles. In the mid-1970s, Berthot's painterly interest began to move from the intellectual to the emotional: "I became less interested in the idea," he has said of this shift,"and more involved with the feeling." Berthot's works from the late 1970s and the 1980s, such as Room, involve a pull between image and surface and between geometry and immateriality, which together create a kind of atmospheric abstraction.
James Richards's moving-image works are collaged from a wide range of source material, often eschewing fixed form in favor of remix and improvisation. His works carve out a space for poetics amid the relentless flow of electronic data and images that have defined the twenty-first century.This work is comprised of rhythmic assemblages of sounds and images extracted from various sources, including the Internet and DVDs, as well as diaristic material gathered by the artist and his friends. Various light distortions created with a small portable video camera add further texture to the work. Tapping into seamless image streams proliferated by the mass media, the work teeters between the sensual realm and something more anxious and violent, pointing toward the experience of existing in a constant, at times oppressive, dialogue with technology. Projected on opposing screens, the work switches from one screen to the other, requiring the audience to physically reposition themselves and unsettling conventions of more passive viewing.
James Rosenquist began painting billboards in Minneapolis, where he was also enrolled in art school. In 1955 he moved to New York, attending the Art Students League and later working as a Times Square billboard painter and as a window-display designer. Initially creating canvases in an Abstract Expressionist mode, Rosenquist dramatically shifted his style in the late 1950s to mimic his slick billboard work. His fragmented images, of an exaggerated scale and with Pop-culture references, quickly identified him as a leading proponent of Pop art. Having worked independently in larger-than-life formats, Rosenquist did not naturally take to the intimate scale and technical processes of traditional printmaking. But spurred on by publisher Tatyana Grosman of the newly founded Universal Limited Art Editions (ULAE) in the early 1960s, he made imposing, experimental lithographs using airbrushes, wallpaper rollers, stencils, and the commercial color-separation process. In the coming decades, collaborating with innovative workshops that embraced new materials and approaches—Styria Studio, Graphicstudio, Gemini G.E.L., and Tyler Graphics among them—Rosenquist created prints of unprecedented scale and ambition, including multipanel installations. He has completed more than three hundred prints to date. Campaign, one of Rosenquist's earliest published prints, typifies the artist's strategy of combining unrelated images and colors that are ambiguous in meaning but unexpectedly unified in composition. With both commercial and political underpinnings, Campaign includes fragments from a painting that the artist produced for an anti-Vietnam War demonstration. The Kleenex boxes, salt shaker, and floral wallpaper design are symbols of consumer culture. The more subtle depiction of a military uniform being sprinkled with salt—the artist's allusion to the tale about peacefully capturing a bird by sprinkling salt on its tail—suggests a nonviolent alternative to war. The title Campaign, in addition to its military association, refers to the artist's twenty-day stay at ULAE to complete this print.
James Stirling and Michael Wilford & Associates' postmodern design for the extension of the Staatsgalerie Stuttgart, a project also containing a theater and a music school, won a limited competition in 1977. The architects were aiming for a building that would be both a monumental civic structure and an informal one, reflecting the evolving role of the Western museum as a place of popular entertainment. "High tech" in some respects while traditional in others, the building was intended to relate simultaneously to its context—the city of Stuttgart, heavily rebuilt after World War II—and to the Staatsgalerie's original, neoclassical building, to which it would be attached. The design combines a wide range of architectural references both general and particular: Romanesque windows (seen in this drawing), Egyptian entrances, Greek columns, and allusions to specific buildings such as Karl Friedrich Schinkel's Altes Museum in Berlin, Gunnar Asplund's Stockholm Library, and Raphael's Villa Madama, Rome. These eclectic juxtapositions of traditional elements, along with the more contemporary presence of components in colored metals, result in an inventive and vibrant modern building. This drawing is an unusual perspective view of the main entrance, showing it from various vantage points at once—both from below and in elevation. The orange revolving doors and the blue canopy with its supporting green I-beam are viewed from beneath, while the wall with its Romanesque window, and the red beam to which the canopy is attached, are shown in elevation. Stirling made the drawing early in the project, and elements such as the informal and decorative metallic pink railings were relocated in the final design.
James Wines, a founding member in 1970 of the SITE (Sculpture In The Environment) architectural group, described the Highrise of Homes project as a "vertical community" to "accommodate people's conflicting desires to enjoy the cultural advantages of an urban center, without sacrificing the private home identity and garden space associated with suburbia." The plan calls for a steel-and-concrete, eight-to-ten-story, U-shaped building frame erected in a densely populated urban area. The developer would sell lots within this frame, each lot the site for a house and garden in a style chosen by the purchaser. The result would be a distinct villagelike community on each floor, with interior streets. A central mechanical core would serve these homes and gardens, while shops, offices, and other facilities on the ground and middle floors would provide for the residents' needs. Whereas urban skyscrapers are normally made up of identical, stacked, boxlike units, the Highrise of Homes would allow flexibility and individual choice. The wide variety of house styles, gardens, hedges, and fences described in this intricate rendering provides a sense of the personal identity and human connection that are generally erased by the austere and repetitive elements of architectural formalism. Placing the sociological and psychological needs of the inhabitant over the aesthetic sensibilities of the architect, Wines produces a merge of suburb and city, a collage of architectures collectively created by its inhabitants and by the art of chance. Developers considered Battery Park City, New York, as a possible location for the project, but it was never built.
Jar Tops is a series of interchangeable plastic screwtops that can be attached to standard glass jars, transforming them into personalized kitchenwares with specific functions. This family of accessories offers an affordable way to enhance the utility of existing objects, responding to the longstanding call for both economy and beauty in kitchen products. Van Ast completed the Design Products course at the Royal College of Art in 2006 and continues to work in London.
J. B. Neumann (Jsrael Ber Neumann), New Art Circle (from 1923), New York.  By 1931Abby Aldrich Rockefeller, New York. Purchased from Neumann. June 3, 1931 - 1939The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift of Abby Aldrich Rockefeller, 1939
J.B. Neumann, New YorkMrs John D. Rockefeller (Abby Aldrich Rockefeller), New York. Purchased from J.B. Neumann, December 1930 – 1935The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift of Abby Aldrich Rockefeller, 1935
Jean Decroux, Paris/Morges, Switzerland, by 1950 [1]; Fine Arts Associates (Otto and Ilse Gerson), New York [2]; The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1951 (acquired through the Lillie P. Bliss Bequest).[1] Included in the exhibition Les Fauves, Kunsthalle Bern, April 29-May 29, 1950 (no. 24: Paysage du Midi). Lender: Private collection, Morges.[2] Michel Kellermann, André Derain: catalogue raisonné de l'oeuvre peint, Paris: Editions Galerie Schmit, 1992, vol. 1, no. 107: Paysage à l'Estaque, 1906.
Jean Fautrier (French painter, 1898-1964), Châtenay-Malabry, France. By 1954Maurice Lafaille, Paris. 1955Private collection of Mr and Mrs Pierre Matisse, New York. Acquired from Lafaille, 1955 - April 1960Museum of Modern Art benefit auction, Parke-Bernet Galleries, April 27, 1960. Donated by Mr and Mrs Pierre MatisseNina and Gordon Bunshaft, New York, N.Y. Purchased at Museum of Modern Art benefit auction, 1960 - 1968The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift of Nina and Gordon Bunshaft, 1968
Jean–Luc Godard, one of cinema's most influential artists, has made significant contributions to the field of video. He began making films in the mid–1950s, and since 1974 he has been working with video technologies, employing techniques such as deconstruction, reassemblage, and collage to create a fresh aesthetic that is both resonant and intriguing. Godard overlaps music, sounds, and dialogue and establishes visual rhythms through juxtaposing slow takes and rapid cuts to create what he calls son image, that is, sound and image. In Puissance de la parole, explosive sequences from nature abut those consisting of passionate discussions by two couples. One pair argues in dialogue spoken by the lovers in the novel The Postman Always Rings Twice, by James Cain; the other couple quotes a tale by Edgar Allan Poe. Regardless of his chosen medium, Godard has always expressed a wide range of thematic interests—art, politics, history, television, communication, anxiety, sex, desire, music, and the history of the movies.
Jeanne Mammen, Berlin [1]; Galerie Brockstedt, Hamburg, by 1971 [2]. Piccadilly Gallery, London [3]; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York (Gift of Mr. and Mrs. Deutsch), 1977 [4].[1] Jörn Merkert et al, eds., Jeanne Mammen, 1890-1976: Monographie und Werkverzeichnis, Cologne: Wienand, 1997, no. A 351.[2] Jeanne Mammen: Aquarelle Paris, Brüssel vor 1915, Berlin 20er Jahre, Galerie Brockstedt, Hamburg, April-May 1971 (no. 58).[3] Jörn Merkert et al, eds., Jeanne Mammen, 1890-1976: Monographie und Werkverzeichnis, Cologne: Wienand, 1997, no. A 351. [4] Included in the exhibition "Extraordinary Women", The Museum of Modern Art, New York, July 22 - September 20, 1977.
John Quinn, New York. Purchased from Rouault, March 1918 – 1924Quinn Estate, 1924 – 1926Quinn sale, Hotel Drouot, Paris, October 28, 1926, no. 20George Schick, Paris. [Purchased at Drouot, 1926] – until 1941Perls Galleries, New York. Purchased from Schick, 1941 – 1951Mr. and Mrs. Peter A. Rübel. Purchased from Perls, 1951The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift of Mr. and Mrs. Peter A. Rübel, 1951
Johns has explored a range of expressive variations using a crosshatching motif. Works with the title Usuyuki are named after a Japanese word for light snow. In these two examples, Johns has incorporated the same printing plates in different orientations. Note the circular, rectangular, and lozenge shapes in each to see ways he has altered his compositions.
Johns has looked to other artists for motifs and patterns to serve as compositional elements in his own work. While many of his references have been identified—from work of the modern master Pablo Picasso to that of Matthias Grünewald of the Renaissance—here Johns presents a shape traced from an unnamed work. He decided not to make the source known because it might hamper spontaneous responses. To date, the Green Angel motif has appeared in over forty paintings, drawings, and prints.
Johns has made dozens of interpretations of the American flag—in painting, drawing, metal relief, and printmaking. Flag I is his first printed rendering. He drew the image with broad strokes in the liquid medium of tusche, which accounts for the loose, fluid quality of the composition and its nearly unrecognizable form. Printed in rich black ink, this version exudes a somber, even morbid, tone.
Johns's work often explores the concept of doubling, examining distinctions between two like but dissimilar images. In Two Maps I he probes this idea in a single work, juxtaposing two renderings of the immediately recognizable United States map. By printing them differently—one more amorphous, the other more distinct—he prompts viewers to look closely and assess the well-known image anew. Also, by omitting the state names Johns invites viewers to appreciate the composition's form without "reading" it for information. The same year, Johns made a new iteration, Two Maps II, further expanding his visual exercise with this compelling and iconic symbol.
Johnston was a professional photographer, noted for her portraits of Washington politicians and her photographs of coal miners, iron workers, and women workers in the New England textile mills. In 1899 Hampton Institute commissioned her to make photographs at the school for an exhibition about contemporary African American life at the Paris Exposition of 1900. This picture exemplifies Johnston's classical sense of composition and her practice of carefully arranging her subjects. Her complete control over the scene is readily apparent, yet the grace of the men's poses—evenly bathed in natural light—seems to justify her artifice.Hampton Institute had been established in 1868, three years after the Civil War ended, when the educator and philanthropist Samuel C. Armstrong persuaded the American Missionary Association to fund a school for the vocational training of African Americans. Armstrong admired the "excellent qualities and capacities"of the freed black soldiers who had fought in the War under his command, and he believed that education was essential to them if they were to achieve productive independence.
Jonas has worked in video and performance for more than thirty years, integrating the two art forms in unexpected ways. With this recent work she continues her exploration of the dual art form but on a radically altered scale, undertaking what she has described as "a new effort to create performances in miniature."My New Theater 1 is a tabletop installation in the form of a box that slopes upward from front to back. Open on one end, this "theater" allows several viewers to observe a video projected onto a screen filling the far wall. The sparse props of the maquette—miniature fishing pole, owl, rabbit, chaise longue—are reminiscent of the stage design of a typical Jonas performance. The video presents a Cape Breton step dancer performing to the accompaniment of a fiddler and a piano player, intercut with a young girl dancing in a more elaborate style. The Scottish music radiates over the lush green of summertime, contrasting sharply with the murky theater setting. The scale evokes the miniature cityscapes and elongated figures by Alberto Giacometti, whose work has influenced Jonas, and the spirit recalls the New York avant–garde theater companies The Wooster Group, with whom the artist has frequently collaborated, and Mabou Mines.
Jones Netter, Brussels and Paris. By 1926 – 1929Etienne Bignou, Paris (dealer; agent for Netter). 1929Cesar M. de Hauke, New York (dealer). [Acquired from Netter through Bignou], 1929 – early 1930sJacques Seligmann & Co. Galleries (Germain Seligmann), Paris and New York. By 1933 – c. 1946Josef von Sternberg, Hollywood, California, and Weekhawken, New Jersey. Acquired from Seligmann, by 1946 – 1949Auction sale, Josef von Sternberg Collection, Parke-Bernet Galleries, NY, November 22, 1949, lot 92The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Purchased from Sternberg auction with Mrs. Simon Guggenheim Fund, 1949
Jongerius has gained notoriety for fusing industry and craft, high and low technology, and tradition and contemporary design. On a trip to Africa, Jongerius encountered a classic three-legged stool crafted by a carpenter from Kasese, Uganda. Inspired, she created a new seat that captures the character of the original, transforming a traditional African design into a folding chair, made of light, high-tech material.
Jongerius is known for her experimental merging of contemporary manufacturing technologies with traditional craft techniques. Through projects such as knitted lamps and embroidered ceramics, Jongerius creates poetic interpretations of simple, everyday objects.The Repeat Classic Print Textile was designed with the aim of making a single upholstery fabric that could be used to cover a suite of furniture so that each piece would be related to, yet distinct from, the others. The solution was to create a long ribbon of fabric composed of various panels that blend together seamlessly. Although a single fabric panel may be used individually, larger sections work as multipatterned elements that can be mixed and matched.To obtain a different pattern for each textile panel, Jongerius uses Jacquard loom technology, in which punch cards are fed into a loom to control the weaving process, allowing for tremendous flexibility and complexity in the woven patterns. Jongerius plays with the notational alphabet used in the manufacturing process by printing these characters in a layer of white lacquer over the Jacquard patterns. The Repeat Classic Print Textile liberates a standardized manufacturing process by creating opportunities for random variation within a single system. Techniques of recombination and layering of information provide a modern take on a traditional textile process.
Jörg Immendorff is among those German Neo-Expressionist artists who emerged in the 1980s and have made printmaking a significant part of their creative practice. After studying stage design at the Academy of Art in Düsseldorf, he switched his focus to art and became a student of Joseph Beuys, the renowned Conceptual artist and teacher. Absorbing Beuys's revolutionary teachings and attitudes about art, Immendorff became a regular participant in neo-Dada "Happenings" and "manifestations," using these actions as a means of expressing his political and artistic ideas. The specter of World War II and its ongoing repercussions have been of primary importance in Immendorff's work. Adopting an aggressive painterly style that harks back to that of the German Expressionists in the early twentieth century, he has addressed social issues in postwar Germany. The differing economic and political systems of what was then east and west is explored in a vocabulary of recurring symbols and images that have become integral to his iconography, which includes portraits of his friends and himself, sometimes gathered together in an imagined social setting he calls Café Deutschland. In other works, he uses disparate elements to construct his forms, as in Decisive Enemy, which includes a personified tank, a recurring image in his work, with clawlike feet. An active printmaker, Immendorff helped pioneer a new idiom for relief mediums such as woodcut and linoleum cut that had fallen out of favor as artistic mediums. Unconcerned with the concept of a uniform edition, he here exploits the expressive potential of his technique, boldly cutting the block in a purposely rough fashion and printing the impressions himself. This work was included in one of a series of three portfolios from the early 1980s that introduced the work of contemporary German painters to a broader audience through printmaking.
Josef von Sternberg (1894-1969) , Hollywood, California. By 1943– 1949Auction sale, Josef von Sternberg Collection, Parke-Bernet Galleries, New York, November 22, 1949, lot no. 100The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Purchased from Parke Bernet auction, 1949
Joseph Beuys was the preeminent spokesperson of postwar European art and among the most radical artists of the century. He wanted to extend the creative process into every facet of life and employ art as an educational tool. Using tactics reminiscent of Dada decades earlier, and inspired by the progressive, interdisciplinary ideas of the Fluxus group in the early 1960s, Beuys felt art should be a way of life, not a profession. This philosophy culminated in his actions, or social sculptures, that were ritualistic theatrical events in which he assumed the role of modern-day shaman to arouse a spiritual response in other people and affect change in the world around him. Beuys is famous for saying, "If you have all my multiples then you have me entirely." As a political activist and a passionate professor, as well as a visual artist, he was strongly committed to the dissemination of his ideas to a mass audience and, beginning in 1965, completed more than six hundred prints and multiples. He referred to them as his "vehicles" and believed he could imbue them with a psychic energy as they went out into the world, reflecting the theme of transubstantiation that underlies much of his work. His editions range from contemplative sculptural objects in relatively small editions to mass-produced printed ephemera such as political flyers, shopping bags, and postcards, many of which function as relics of his short-lived actions. In this life-size print We Are the Revolution, Beuys emphatically calls for communal action to transform society, encapsulating a period of fervent political activism in the early 1970s. Earth Telephone reflects his fundamental theme of energy flow, or Hauptstrom (main stream). Here the telephone represents a transmitter of electric current that passes energy through the earth, while his signature felt material symbolizes the conservation of this warmth.
Judith Shea trained as a fashion designer before turning to fine art, and traces of her first profession are visible in her use of clothing. The hollow interior and low placement of Crawl, which takes its name from the swimming stroke, invite the viewer to imagine a swimmer within the bathing suit, and according to the artist's instructions, the pedestal on which Crawl lies is large enough to accommodate the body of the theoretical swimmer. With this work, Shea alludes to the centurieslong tradition of heroic bronze sculpture, but subverts it by suggesting the figure's absence and positioning the work horizontally.
Julien Levy Gallery, New York. 1937Mr. and Mrs. James Thrall Soby, New Canaan, Connecticut and New York, New York. Purchased from Julien Levy, 1937 - 1947The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift of James Thrall Soby, 1947
Jürgenssen played an instrumental role in the international feminist avant–garde of the 1970s. In 1972, probing the clichés of gender representation, she took a picture of her own body in four poses to spell out the word frau (woman). In a signature self-portrait from 1976, titled Ich möchte hier raus! (I want out of here!), Jürgenssen, sporting a neat, white lace collar and brooch, presses her cheek and hands against the glass wall of a display case, suggesting in her entrapment the repressive codes of beauty and domesticity that women have often been subject to.
"Just as one can compose colors, or forms, so one can compose motions," Calder stated shortly before making this work. One of Calder's first mechanized mobiles, A Universe presents his abstract vision of the cosmos. A small red sphere and a larger white one suggest planets and move along curved wire paths at different speeds, completing a full cycle in forty minutes. Calder constructed a motor that propelled the spheres' movements, using his training as a mechanical engineer. Reflecting on his work of this period, Calder commented, "At that time and practically ever since, the underlying form in my work has been the system of the universe." His personal fascination with the solar system was part of a wider phenomenon, prompted in part by the discovery of Pluto in 1930. Calder's interest in astronomy and physics was not one-sided, however. When A Universe was first exhibited at the Museum, Albert Einstein reportedly stood transfixed in front of its slowly moving orbs for the entire forty–minute cycle.
Kaabi-Linke takes inspiration from the forgotten or misused urban spaces around her. In this work she has captured the graffiti and other markings found on bus shelters and subway stations in Berlin, where she currently resides. Describing her project as “a kind of archaeology,” Kaabi-Linke records the marred and altered surfaces of these transit depots using forensic dusting powder, typically employed to gather fingerprints at a crime scene. She dusts the surface with the powder then picks up the residue with a film liner and transfers the visual traces onto sheets of Plexiglas, creating ghostly images of the original surfaces. The final works transform the vandalizing marks into evocative abstractions that preserve the activities of countless, anonymous individuals.
Kahlo painted Self-Portrait with Cropped Hair shortly after she divorced her unfaithful husband, the artist Diego Rivera. As a painter of many self- portraits, she had often shown herself wearing a Mexican woman's traditional dresses and flowing hair; now, in renunciation of Rivera, she painted herself short haired and in a man's shirt, shoes, and oversized suit (presumably her former husband's). Kahlo knew adventurous European and American art, and her own work was embraced by the Surrealists, whose leader, André Breton, described it as "a ribbon around a bomb." But her stylistic inspirations were chiefly Mexican, especially nineteenth-century religious painting, and she would say, "I do not know if my paintings are Surrealist or not, but I do know that they are the most frank expression of myself." The queasily animate locks of fresh-cut hair in this painting must also be linked to her feelings of estrangement from Rivera (whom she remarried the following year), and they also have the dreamlike quality of Surrealism. For, into the work she has written the lyric of a Mexican song: "Look, if I loved you it was because of your hair. Now that you are without hair, I don't love you anymore."
Kandinsky described Klänge (Sounds) as a "musical album." The woodcuts, prose poems, and typography merge and complement one another in a symphonic synthesis, and the horse and rider, Kandinsky's symbol for moving beyond representation in art, is a recurring motif throughout. The artist made the fifty-six woodcuts in this book between 1907 and 1912. His experiments during these formative years with flat, reductive woodcut were an important avenue to the expressive abstraction he was then developing in his painting.
Kandinsky made these two works when he was a teacher at the Bauhaus, the innovative and influential modernist art and architecture school in Germany, where he began working in 1922. His work during this period was characterized by precise lines and dense groups of simple geometric shapes arranged without any central focus. In his writings Kandinsky analyzed the geometrical elements and the various ways that their color, placement, and interaction could affect the viewer, both physically and spiritually. He considered the circle to be the most elementary form, possessing a cosmic meaning.
Kane's 1929 Self–Portrait is considered one of the artist's masterpieces. The portrait is both a shockingly realistic depiction of the male body—veins, chest hair, and all—and an object meant for decorative display, with a frame indicated around the image edges and painted arches defining the figure's head. Like other self–taught artists in this exhibition, Kane produced most of his work in a concentrated period of time—the last seven years of his life.
Karl A. Legat, The Hague, by 1949 [1]; sold to Myrtel Frank (1893-1961), The Hague/New York; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1950 [2].[1] Lender to the exhibition Expressionisme: Van Gogh tot Picasso, Stedelijk Museum, Amsterdam, 1949, no. 45 (kerk te Murnau, 1909). Legat offered the painting for sale to the Stedelijk Museum, Amsterdam and the Van Abbemuseum, Eindhoven in March 1949, but both institutions rejected the offer.  See Gregor Langfeld, Duitse kunst in Nederland, Zwolle: Waanders Uitgevers, 2004, p. 276, p. 350.[2] Collection files 321.1950, Department of Painting and Sculpture, The Museum of Modern Art, New York
Karl Lang, Darmstadt; acquired by Heinrich Stinnes (1867-1932), Cologne, September, 1921; Heinrich Stinnes Estate; sold through Hollstein & Puppel, Berlin, November 11-12, 1936 (lot 32). Ernst Beyeler, Basel; to The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1951
Karl Nierendorf (1889-1947), New York; Estate of Karl Nierendorf, New York, 1947; sold to Alexander W. Pearlman (1914-2004), New York, March 17, 1954 [1]; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York (Gift of Samuel A. Berger), 1954. [1] See "Court Backs Art Sale," The New York Times, March 18, 1954
Karl Nierendorf (1889-1947), New York; Estate of Karl Nierendorf, New York, 1947; sold to Alexander W. Pearlman (1914-2004), New York, March 17, 1954 [1]; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York (Gift of Samuel A. Berger), 1954. [1] See "Court Backs Art Sale," The New York Times, March 18, 1954.
Kawasaki's goal was to create a wheelchair that felt as good, and looked as cool, as the newest pair of sneakers. The Carna is colorful and has high–tech style. Since it had to be light and easy to carry, an improvement over most collapsible wheelchairs, Kawasaki used a titanium frame, with aluminum honeycomb–core wheels and rubber seat and tires. Moreover, to offer personalized comfort, he designed optional parts that users can add to the standard frame, according to the needs of the moment. Appropriately, Carna was named for the ancient Roman goddess who had power over entrances and exits. Kawasaki is interested in bringing technology and fine craft closer together. Known for his works for Toshiba, Kawasaki pursued personal projects after a disabling accident in 1977. He has written: "Older people, handicapped and normal people are separated in today's Japan, so designers need to make designs that are kind and caring and need to treat more handicapped people equally in society. . . . To be a visionary designer I want to design products for myself first."
Kelley's work centers on themes of failure, adolescence, art history, pop culture, music, and psychoanalysis. He often mocks the Freudian characterization of the artist as neurotic and questions the idealistic concept of childhood innocence. In this series, Kelley rewrites the biblical Creation story with scatological materials, satirizing the divine importance of the artist by depicting his own hand drawing on the page. "Mortal coil" is a term used in William Shakespeare's play Hamlet to designate the troubles of daily life and the suffering in the world, while "coil" is a verb meaning "to lay down in spirals." Kelley refers to both meanings in his story of human creation.
Kelly arranged the sixty–four square panels of the grid in an arbitrary sequence, likening his method to the "the work of a bricklayer." Using squares of commercial colored paper left over from a previous series of collages, he first made a study for Colors for a Large Wall. Then he precisely matched the hues of the papers with oil paint, and arranged the final, full–size panels in strict adherence to the paper study.
Kenyan-born artist Wangechi Mutu's collage pays tribute to Funmilayo Anikulapo–Kuti, the mother of the famous Afrobeat musician Fela Kuti. A pioneering feminist who is said to have been the first woman to drive a car in Nigeria, she fought against the practice of female genital mutilation. Mutu explains why this diptych is both tantalizing and menacing: "The figure exists in an imaginary outer space, clutching a mangled serpent, the phallic and mythological creature that instigated the downfall of Eve. . . . The image and title are infested with the inherent contradictions that were the experience of a radical like Funmilayo. A visionary and brave fighter, she was caught in the upheaval of the creation of a nation's identity."
Kiesler, an architect, set designer, artist, and philosopher, began to explore "endless" architectural space in 1922, and he continued to develop this theme throughout his career. The biomorphic Endless House is Kiesler's vision of a free-form, continuous, human-centered living space synthesizing painting, sculpture, architecture, and the environment. Designed in direct opposition to the static, rectilinear rooms of the sterile boxes that were beginning to dominate modern architecture in the 1950s, this house, he said, was to be "endless like the human body—there is no beginning and no end." He saw this womblike form as related to female anatomy; others see an egg, or even the human heart, with the different rooms as aortic chambers.
Kiki Smith is among the most innovative sculptors and printmakers of the contemporary period, emerging in the 1980s amid a resurgence of interest in the figurative tradition. An ardent collaborator, she has been a committed printmaker since the mid-1980s and has completed more than one hundred fifty published prints and books in formats ranging from monumental multimedia prints and elaborate livres d'artistes to screenprinted tattoos and rubber stamps. Photography has also played an important role in her printmaking, particularly in the numerous self-portraits she completed in the 1990s at Universal Limited Art Editions and her most recent forays with digital prints at Pace Editions. Smith blurs the boundaries between prints and drawings, since many of her unique works on paper are printed. In her earliest work she addressed the fragility yet enduring spirit of life in stark, poignant depictions of internal and external fragments of the human body. Representing the body was Smith's way of learning about it and showcasing the importance of corporeal concerns. In Sueño she depicts the flayed body of a figure, revealing the musculature of this huddled form. Exemplifying her sculptural approach to printmaking, Smith used her own body as the template, lying on the copperplate and allowing the printers to trace her outline. In the mid-1990s she shifted her focus to the natural world, depicting birds, animals, and the cosmos in sculpture as well as prints and books. Birds have been of particular interest to her, both personally and symbolically, as a reference to the Holy Spirit. Peacock is the most commanding example of the many specimens she sketched in natural history museums, and later printed on several sheets of textured handmade paper in varying formats.
Kilimnik, a native of Philadelphia, rose to international attention in the early 1990s with a diverse body of work encompassing drawing, painting, sculpture, and video. Drawing plays a major role in her artistic practice and Fergie (A Quiet Life) is a signature example. With its photo–derived image, text from a gossipy tabloid, and famous subject, this drawing incorporates the central strands of Kilimnik's art, which typically blends sentimentality with irony in a critique of fame and media.Like many of the bygone pictorial styles Kilimnik ironically resurrects, royalty is itself a historical form with an arguably debased present, and the inclusion of the Duchess of York here demonstrates the ways in which Kilimnik generates considered (if biting) correspondences between the subjects of her art and its form. The intentionally flat forms in the drawings (which typically include very little shading) not only refer to the constrained possibilities for handmade art after the age of mechanical reproduction, but also to the vapidity and fleetingness of the fame of their subjects. These themes are reflected too in the "casually" handwritten transcription of a gossip-column report that occupies the right-hand side of the sheet. This text, which addresses issues of class and new world / old world tensions, is simultaneously catty and playful while also clearly ironic and critical.
Kirchner created this painting in a period of loneliness and insecurity shortly after the Brücke group disbanded in 1913. It shows two well-dressed prostitutes strolling the streets, surrounded by furtively glancing men. For Kirchner, the prostitute was a symbol of the modern city, where glamour and danger, and intimacy and alienation necessarily coexisted, and everything was for sale. The intense, clashing colors heighten the excitement and anxiety, and the tilted horizon destabilizes the scene.
Kirchner Estate (Erna Schilling), Davos-Frauenkirch, June 15, 1938; to "Verrechnungsstelle" Zurich, Oct 4, 1945; to Kunstsammlung Basel, 1946-1947; to Roman Norbert Ketterer, 1950s; to Detlef Mengler, Darmstadt, 1950s; to Jörg Maass Gallery, Berlin, 2002; to The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 2002
Kirchner Estate (Erna Schilling), June 15, 1938, Davos-Frauenkirch; to Kunstsammlung Basel, 1946-1947; to Gutekunst & Klipstein, Bern, 1949.Walter Bareiss, New York, [?] ; given to The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1956
Kisho Kurokawa was a leading member of the Metabolist movement in Japanese architecture of the 1960s, a movement reflecting the belief that cities could be designed according to organic paradigms. Metabolist architects hoped that the use of biological processes as models would give them efficient ways to deal with the rapid growth and technological progress of societies all over the world. Their design philosophy involved gigantic buildings, of a size that Le Corbusier had envisioned and sometimes built in past decades. This monumental scale reflected operations they also saw at work in contemporary urban growth; their buildings were to become nodes in the organic fabric of the rapidly growing city. The Metabolist architect Fumihiko Maki is credited with coining the word "megastructure", in an essay of 1961; he defined it as "a large frame in which all the functions of a city or part of a city are housed . . . [the frame is] made possible by present-day technology." For the international movement of architects trying to design the ideal city of the future, "megastructure" became a key word. Kurokawa's impressive Helix City Project envisioned an organic city plan, shown in this drawing, based on service towers connected by an infrastructure of bridges spanning both land and sea. Residential buildings would neatly fill the spaces between, and the pattern could be repeated ad infinitum. Kurokawa, who had worked with Kenzo Tange on his generative Plan for Tokyo of 1960, based his architecture "on the principle of life", he stated in 1998. More than a utopian vision, his Helix City shows an attempt to respond to the dramatic shortage of dwelling space in modern Japan by distributing the built environment in a more structured and sensible way.
Klee was one of the many modernist artists who wanted to practice what he called "the pure cultivation of the means" of painting—in other words, to use line, shape, and color for their own sake rather than to describe something visible. That priority freed him to create images dealing less with perception than with thought, so that the bird in this picture seems to fly not in front of the cat's forehead but inside it–the bird is literally on the cat's mind. Stressing this point by making the cat all head, Klee concentrates on thought, fantasy, appetite, the hungers of the brain. One of his aims as an artist, he said, was to "make secret visions visible." The cat is watchful, frighteningly so, but it is also calm, and Klee's palette too is calm, in a narrow range from tawny to rose with zones of bluish green. This and the suggestion of a child's drawing lighten the air. Believing that children were close to the sources of creativity, Klee was fascinated by their art, and evokes it here through simple lines and shapes: ovals for the cat's eyes and pupils (and, more loosely, for the bird's body), triangles for its ears and nose. And the tip of that nose is a red heart, a sign of the cat's desire.
Klein employed female models as "living paintbrushes" to make this work and others in his Anthropometry series, named after the study of human body measurements. "In this way," the artist said, "I stayed clean. I no longer dirtied myself with color, not even the tips of my fingers." Klein directed the models, covered in International Klein Blue—his patented blue paint—to make imprints of their bodies on large sheets of paper. He staged the making of Anthropometries as elaborate performances for an audience, complete with blue cocktails and a performance of his Monotone Symphony—a single note played for twenty minutes, followed by twenty minutes of silence.
Knorr was co-awarded first prize in the Seating Units category for this side chair. Described as "light, flexible, and elegant," it features a curved seat cut from sheet metal and designed to conform to the human body. Its simple shape and fixtures facilitate easy manufacture and storage, and it is finished with flexible paint to prevent cracking. Knorr has a background in architecture, and after serving in the United States Navy in World War II he pursued graduate studies at Cranbrook Academy of Art in Michigan. He worked at the prestigious architectural firms of Saarinen, Saarinen & Associates and Skidmore, Owings & Merrill before establishing his own practice in San Francisco in 1951.
Known for his energetic compositions with bold colors and snappy rhythms, Davis painted quintessentially modern American subjects. Among his sources of inspiration, he listed “skyscraper architecture; the brilliant colors on gasoline stations; chain store fronts and taxicabs” and “jazz music.”Long before Andy Warhol and other Pop artists mined the world of trademark brands, Davis incorporated imagery from logos, commercial signage, and modern packaging into his paintings. In the 1920s—the “golden age” of advertising—the artist created Lucky Strike, a visual riff on a pack of cigarettes, and Odol, a sleek, streamlined ode to a bottle of mouthwash.
Known primarily as a sculptor, Eduardo Paolozzi emerged on the British art scene in the early 1950s as a founding member of London's forward-looking Independent Group, a loose-knit organization of artists, architects, and writers focused on the impact of popular culture on modernism. Through his involvement with this group, he spearheaded radical thinking about art and mass media that fostered the development of a Pop aesthetic on both sides of the Atlantic. Paolozzi has obsessively collected vast quantities of printed ephemera—from pulp books and magazines to engineering diagrams and weaving patterns—which served as the basis for his many collages. Although he has worked in nearly all of the printmaking techniques, and completed several hundred printed works as well as some illustrated books, he has made a particular contribution in the screenprint medium, which he revolutionized in his translations of these collages into printed art. In the 1960s, Paolozzi's experimental approach with his longstanding printer Christopher Prater of Kelpra Studio, and later with Chris Betambeau of Advanced Graphics, played a significant role in overturning established ideas about originality and collaboration in printmaking. In the 1970s and 1980s he also worked extensively in etching using an abstracted vocabulary that appeared simultaneously in prints and relief sculptures. Among the earliest examples of Pop printmaking in England, As Is When is Paolozzi's homage to the Viennese philosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein, whose texts are judiciously excerpted on each of the book's screenprints. Wittgenstein's study of linguistic systems coincided with Paolozzi's fascination with games and influenced his approach to the repetition and juxtaposition of elements in his own vocabulary. Despite the abstract qualities of Tortured Life, the imagery clearly suggests the cinema as spools of film cascade from boxlike cameras. Paolozzi had made two films himself in the early 1950s, and Wittgenstein was a known enthusiast of American popular films.
Kocher designed this chaise in conjunction with a project for the Clarence White School of Photography in New York. Charged with remodeling a townhouse at 34 West 74th Street for the school's relocation, he designed and fabricated furniture for the faculty terrace before funding problems prevented the projects completion. Kocher, an architect, was especially interested in affordability, and through the 1930s he explored the use of new industrial materials in domestic structures, including aluminum with steel and canvas over plywood. He was the Editor of Architectural Record and a professor at Black Mountain College in North Carolina, for which he designed several buildings. He was recognized as an American leader in European-inspired modernism, and his work was featured in MoMAs 1932 "International Style" exhibition.
Kokoschka's notorious play Murderer, Hope of Women was first produced in 1909 in Vienna, where its single performance caused a scandal. Set in barbaric antiquity against a backdrop of two chanting male and female choruses, it dramatizes the eternal clash between the sexes in violent, bloody terms. This book, published seven years later, brings together his text and four related drawings. The illustrations emphasize the brutal interactions between the two main characters. Their naked bodies are covered with tattoos, which at the time signified primitivism, criminality, and degeneracy.
Kosuth has said that “art is making meaning,” and in his work he investigates the ways in which art-making is tied to language. This work is part of a series based on definitions clipped from dictionary entries for words including “art,” “chair,” “meaning,” or, in this reflexive example, “definition.” Kosuth considers the work of art to be the definition of the given word, but for the purpose of presentation he asks that his original cut-out dictionary entry be photographically enlarged to a specific dimension each time the work is exhibited. This Photostat is the first realization of this work, fabricated in 1968, and as such it is shown here as a historical document.
Kruger has appropriated a well–known passage from Michelangelo's Sistine Chapel ceiling frescoes, where the creation of man is represented through the touch of God's finger to Adam's. Combining a black–and–white reproduction of this painting with text, she draws a parallel between the Biblical creation story and that of a lauded masterpiece of Western painting. Kruger's background in graphic design is evident in the way she boldly overlays the clipped image with her aggressive text. By using the word "You," Kruger implicates us in continuing patriarchal narratives of religion and art history.
Kruger's art often pairs appropriated black–and–white photographs with red bands of text carrying punchy, loaded phrases, such as "I shop therefore I am" or "Your body is a battleground." These provocative combinations of texts and images subvert commodity culture while simultaneously reveling in its attractive packaging.Here Kruger has illustrated "My Pretty Pony," a short story by novelist Stephen King. King's story is about the perception and experience of time: After witnessing his young grandson fall prey to an unfairly timed game of hide–and–seek, an elderly man educates the boy on the difference between perceived, actual, and manipulated time, using the words "my pretty pony" as a counting aid. The brushed stainless steel book cover is emblazoned not with a title or an image but with a working digital clock that tracks the reader's own time. Within the pages, Kruger overlaid images of horses and riders with a small photograph of a hand holding a stopwatch, punctuated by one or two words, which together spell out, "Time ain't got nothing to do with how fast you can count."
Kunsthalle Hamburg, 1918 [1]; removed as "degenerate art" by the Reich Ministry for Public Enlightenment and Propaganda, 1937 [2]; on consignment to Karl Buchholz (1901-1992), Berlin, 1939; to Curt Valentin (1902-1954),New York, 1939 [3]; sold to Wilhelm Reinhold Valentiner (1880–1958), Detroit, 1939 [4]; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1955 (Gift of Dr. W. R. Valentiner).     [1] See Katalog der Neueren Meister, Kunsthalle zu Hamburg, 1927, p. 170, no. 1683. Included in the XVIth Venice Biennial of 1928 (cat. no. 30).[2] EK no.: 15946 (Christus und die Kinder). See Beschlagnahmeinventar "Entartete Kunst," "Degenerate Art" Research Center, FU Berlin). Included in the exhibition Entartete Kunst, Munich (July 19-November 30, 1937) and other venues (Berlin, Leipzig, Düsseldorf, Salzburg). See  Beschlagnahmeinventar "Entartete Kunst", "Degenerate Art" Research Center, FU Berlin. [3] Collection files 341.1955, Department of Painting and Sculpture, The Museum of Modern Art, New York.  On loan from Valentin to the exhibition Art in Our Time, The Museum of Modern Art, New York, May 10- September 30, 1939 (no. 125). [4] Collection files 341.1955, Department of Painting and Sculpture, The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Purchased by Valentiner from the exhibition Art in Our Time. On loan from Valentiner to the exhibition Contemporary German Art, The Institute of Modern Art, Boston, November 2-December 9,  1939, no. 45.
Kurt Schwitters, Hannover, Germany, then Lysaker, Norway. (1920) – 1938Peggy Guggenheim, New York. Sent by Schwitters from Lysaker, Norway, October 1938Mary Callery (1903-1977; sculptor and art dealer), New YorkPhilip Johnson, New York. By bequest from Mary Callery, [1977] – 1979The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift of Philip Johnson, 1980
Lamelas conceived of his early films as sculptural forms without physical substance; Time As Activity - Düsseldorf is the first film in the artists four-decade Time As Activity series. In this body of work, shot using a stationary camera in several different cities, the artist relates the concept of time, as a human invention, to architectural and urban structures. Upon first glance, the work appears to merely document the daily rhythm of the city from three different locations. But before each shot, Lamelas informs us of its exact duration; with this gesture, he posits time as both subject and medium. The artist has described the work as a "time projector" that superimposes another time onto the "real time" of the viewers present moment; in this way, Time As Activity points to the impossibility of an unmediated representation of the world "as it is." The work is at once highly structured and markedly formless, opening up a space for the viewer to consider the production of meaning.
La Miniatura, the Millard House in Pasadena, is the earliest in a series known as the Textile Block houses, designed by Wright in the 1920s; all are located in southern California. This color rendering depicts the Millard House in its lush surroundings. The house is constructed of a combination of plain-faced and ornamental concrete blocks, which were cast on the site from molds designed by Wright. The square blocks, with perforated, glass-filled apertures, form a continuous interior and exterior fabric. The relatively small scale of the blocks allows for a design that closely follows the contours of the landscape.In his autobiography, Wright wrote: "The concrete block? The cheapest (and ugliest) thing in the building world. . . . Why not see what could be done with that gutter-rat?" In his Textile Block houses, Wright attempted to introduce a flexible building system, marrying the merits of standardized machine production to the innovative, creative vision of the artist. While the block system was intended to be an efficient, low-cost method of building that incorporated ornament, it proved to be time consuming and more expensive than traditional construction.
Lam painted The Jungle, his masterpiece, two years after returning to his native Cuba from Europe, where he had been a member of the Surrealist movement. The work, “intended to communicate a psychic state,” Lam said, depicts a group of figures with crescentshaped faces that recall African or Pacific Islander masks, against a background of vertical, striated poles suggesting Cuban sugarcane fields. Together these elements obliquely address the history of slavery in colonial Cuba.
Landmark was made during the summer of 1968 using images transferred from current issues of LIFE magazine. Inverted placement, layering, and significant variation in tone initially mask the fact that many of the images of people, animals, and objects are duplicated. Although Rauschenberg took to lithography reluctantly in the early 1960s, printmaking became for him "an artistic recording of an action as realistic and poetic as a brushstroke."
Large photographs intended to compete with paintings on the walls of galleries and museums began to become a norm in the 1980s. One of the challenges that faced the artists who made them was the need to marshal photography's abundant bits and pieces of descriptive detail into images that could command attention when viewed from a distance. Gursky conquered that challenge with bold geometric patterns that disclose a wealth of complexity as the viewer approaches. Occasionally he achieves the pattern with the help of digital techniques; in Rhine II industrial buildings have been eliminated from the background. This romantic hymn to the grandeur of the Rhine River emulates the haunting simplicity of abstract paintings by Barnett Newman and others, but the image is instantly recognizable as a landscape. And the mesmerizing silver–gray fabric that represents the waves on the water is a swath of unmistakably photographic fact.
Late in 1928, Mies van der Rohe began to design the pavilion that would represent Germany at the 1929 Barcelona International Exposition, the first such event in which the country had participated since its defeat in World War I. The democratically elected postwar government had made its aspirations for the pavilion clear: the building was to represent "our desire to be absolutely truthful, giving voice to the spirit of a new era." The state made few other demands, leaving Mies free to pursue his most radical architectural expression of free-flowing space, bounded only by rich but abstract surfaces of Tinian marble, mirror chrome, plate glass, and onyx. Since the pavilion was demolished when the fair was over, relatively few later audiences and architectural critics had ever seen the building except through the filter of period black-and-white photographs, and its significance became largely a matter of thirdhand debate rather than actual experience. In time it came to be interpreted in terms of Mies's later, more rational work of the 1940s and later, often derided as simple "glass boxes".
Late in 1928, Mies van der Rohe began to design the pavilion that would represent Germany at the 1929 Barcelona International Exposition, the first such event in which the country had participated since its defeat in World War I. The democratically elected postwar government had made its aspirations for the pavilion clear: the building was to represent "our desire to be absolutely truthful, giving voice to the spirit of a new era." The state made few other demands, leaving Mies free to pursue his most radical architectural expression of free-flowing space, bounded only by rich but abstract surfaces of Tinian marble, mirror chrome, plate glass, and onyx. Since the pavilion was demolished when the fair was over, relatively few later audiences and architectural critics had ever seen the building except through the filter of period black-and-white photographs, and its significance became largely a matter of thirdhand debate rather than actual experience. In time it came to be interpreted in terms of Mies's later, more rational work of the 1940s and later, often derided as simple "glass boxes".  This unfinished and little-published rendering of the interior, however, reveals another attitude, more sensual than objective. To the right of the column whose outlines are sketched in the center of the drawing, Mies carefully renders the view from the main space through a glass wall into the courtyard, with its reflecting pool and a sculpture of a reclining figure. Rather than making the glass look fully transparent, he gives the dark green Tinian marble different shadings behind the wall and to the left and right of it, approximating the visual effect of the screen of gray glass. Even the reflection of the sculpture in the pool is studiously considered.
"La Villette had to be built: . . . the finality of each drawing was 'building." —Bernard Tschumi  Bernard Tschumi's drawing of the Follies, one of the three components of his winning proposal in the competition for the Parc de la Villette, Paris, in 1982, seems at first glance limited by the architectural-drawing conventions Tschumi eschews in his earlier, theoretical project The Manhattan Transcripts. Evenly dispersed as points in a four-by-four grid, each folly (with the exception of that on the lower right) is represented through an axonometric projection, painted red with gouache. Like The Manhattan Transcripts, the design for Parc de la Villette employs three autonomous systems: points, lines, and surfaces. Superimposed over the 125-acre expanse, each system also corresponds to the architectural method of disjuncture that Tschumi applied in the earlier work: points equal events; lines correspond to systems of movement; and surfaces are equivalent to systems of space. The Follies are the points, or pointlike activities, distributed evenly at 120-meter intervals. Each is a permutation on the same basic 10-by-10-cubic-meter frame. Where Zaha M. Hadid's proposal for the park can be understood through the simultaneity of a vertical section, Tschumi's tripartite system introduces a cinematic quality, or an order of time and sequence, into the landscape. Meaning is derived through the order of experience rather than the order of structure, as one's experience is conditioned by one's movement. Each Folly becomes an isolated frame within which space, movement, and events are contracted and between which architecture occurs. Drawn in 1986, four years after Tschumi made his initial proposal, the Follies read here like built objects in the landscape—static, sculptural forms. Yet as one's eye jumps from point to point and passes from medium to medium, the drawing, like the park, is constructed through movement. Red ink and red and white gouache painted over the white line of the photographic image become interchangeable notation systems in which the event forms the backdrop.Originally from TextEntryID 73728 (TextTypeID 133)removed references to manhattan transcripts...(see 3.1995.2, 3.1995.4, 7.1995.8, 9.1995.3)removed references to Zaha M. Hadid's proposal for the park (see 357.1996.1, 357.1996.3, 357.1996.5, 357.1996.7, 357.1996.12.a-j, 357.1996.15.a-b)
Le Corbusier made this sketch during a lecture he delivered on November 27, 1935, under the title "City Planning." He was addressing the Chicago chapter of the American Institute of Architects, as part of a lecture tour—his first trip to the United States. The trip was prompted in part by an exhibition of Le Corbusier's work at The Museum of Modern Art, organized by Philip Johnson and Henry-Russell Hitchcock. Le Corbusier's first version of his plan for the North African city of Algiers, developed between 1930 and 1933, represented the culmination of his 1920s work on urban design, and especially of his concept of the Ville radieuse. Even in its several later incarnations, the plan was also a loud demonstration of the disruptive effects of his architecture, which tended to obliterate the past in order to build a better future. Well aware of this quality, the architect called his plan the "Obus" or "shrapnel" plan. It featured a business center on the docks, where the preexisting buildings were to be torn down; a residential neighborhood on the difficult, hilly site of the Fort l'Empereur; and a giant motorway, the land below it to be filled by homes for 180,000 people. The plan was as magniloquent as it was visionary, as is evident in the right half of the drawing, where Le Corbusier's blue pencil highlights the new buildings. The plan on the left shows his vision for the new city culminating in the new buildings on the docks, marked in red on a yellow field. The courage of Le Corbusier's Obus design, his readiness to tackle urban planning on a giant scale, influenced generations of later architects and indirectly informed the construction of a number of new cities such as Brasília. As for Le Corbusier himself, however, he continued to make new proposals until 1942, but his Algiers—like his other urban plans—was never built.
Le Fresnoy is a complex for international arts that includes a school, a film studio, two cinemas, and research and production laboratories for sound, image, video, and film. The project was built on a site with derelict buildings. Rather than demolish them or embark on an extensive renovation process, Tschumi chose to leave the existing structures intact, protecting them with an enormous steel roof canopy that incorporates environmental and stage controls for the complex. The area between the tiled roofs of the existing buildings and the new roof is a zone for spectacle and experiment, in which a superimposition of spaces and functions forms an architectural collage. Tschumi is fascinated by cinematic montage, which he sees as linked to the relationship between architectural space, movement, and the "architecture-event," or action within space. This drawing shows a montage of filmstrip "beams" in which events generate form and continue to unfold as life takes shape in the complex.
Leo (1872-1947) and Gertrude Stein (1874-1946), Paris, 1908 [1]; Gertrude Stein, Paris and San Francisco, 1913/1914 [2]; Estate of Gertrude Stein (Alice B. Toklas, 1877-1967), 1946 [3]; purchased through the Museum of Modern Art Syndicate by David and Peggy Rockefeller, New York, December 14, 1968 [4]; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1974 (Gift of Mr. and Mrs. David Rockefeller).[1] The painting appears in a photograph taken at the Stein's apartment at rue de Fleurus, Paris, between summer 1912 and fall 1913, repr. in Janet Bishop, Cécile Debray, and Rebecca A. Rabinow, eds. The Steins Collect: Matisse, Picasso, and the Parisian Avant-Garde. Exh. cat. San Francisco: San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, 2011, p. 368, pl. 353. Owned jointly until 1913/1914.[2] The painting appears in a photograph of the apartment at rue de Fleurus, Paris, taken after Leo Stein's final departure in April 1914, repr. in Janet Bishop, Cécile Debray, and Rebecca A. Rabinow, eds. The Steins Collect: Matisse, Picasso, and the Parisian Avant-Garde. Exh. cat. San Francisco: San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, 2011, p. 371, pl. 356.[3] On the Stein Estate, see Edward Burns, "Alica Toklas and the Gertrude Stein Collection, 1946-1967," Janet Bishop, Cécile Debray, and Rebecca A. Rabinow, eds., The Steins Collect: Matisse, Picasso, and the Parisian Avant-Garde. Exh. cat. San Francisco: San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, 2011, pp. 259-265.[4] See Masterpieces from The David and Peggy Rockefeller Collection: Manet to Picasso, New York: The Museum of Modern Art, 1994, pp. 96-97. Included in the exhibition Four Americans in Paris: The Collections of Gertrude Stein and her Family, The Museum of Modern Art, New York, December 19, 1970-March 1, 1971.
Leo and Gertrude Stein, ParisGertrude Stein, Paris and San Francisco. 1913 - 1946Estate of Gertrude Stein (Alice B. Toklas). 1946 - 1967Mr. and Mrs. John Hay Whitney, New York. 1968 - 1983The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Estate of John Hay Whitney, 1983
Leonard Hutton Galleries, New York. By 1961 – 1969Sidney Elliott Cohn, New York. Purchased from Leonard HuttonThe Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift of Sidney E. Cohn through the Glickstein Foundation, 1969
[Léonce Rosenberg, Paris. Before 1924]John Quinn (1870-1924), New YorkJohn Quinn Estate, 1924 – 1927T. Catesby Jones, New York. By 1941The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift of T. Catesby Jones, 1941
Leopold Zborowski (1889-1932), Paris [1]; private collection, London [2]; Mary Quinn Sullivan (1877-1939), New York, by 1937 [3]; acquired by the Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1939 (Gift of Abby Aldrich Rockefeller in memory of Mrs. Cornelius J. Sullivan) [4].[1] Per Osvaldo Patani, Amedeo Modigliani, Milan: Leonardo 1992, no. 15.[2] Ibid. [3] See exhibition announcement in Art Digest, vol. 12, no. 5 (December 1st, 1937), p. 20: "In the realm of modern art, nothing is quite so rare as a Modigliani stone head … So it is with special interest that devotees of the Modern French await the coming exhibition (Dec. 6 to 23) at the galleries of Mrs. Cornelius J. Sullivan, New York, which will contain two of these rarities." MoMA's sculpture is reproduced. Included in the exhibition Art in Our Time, New York: The Museum of Modern Art, May 10-September 30, 1939 (lent by "Mrs. Cornelius J. Sullivan"). On January 1, 1939, Mary Sullivan informed Barr: "I am happy that the Modigliani head will have a larger audience than my gallery gives it, and best of all that it will be shown by the Modern Museum." [4] Accepted into collection December 8, 1939.
Léopold Zborowski and Hanka Zborowska, Paris. [1917 - c. 1926] By 1926Galerie Pierre (Pierre Loeb), Paris. [Some time between 1926 and 1929]Valentine Gallery (Valentine Dudensing), New York. Acquired from Galerie Pierre. By 1929Lillie P. Bliss (1864-1931), New York. Acquired from Valentine Gallery, 1929 - 1931Lillie P. Bliss Estate, New York. 1931 - 1934The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Lillie P. Bliss Collection, 1934
Less an image of a fish than an embodiment of the idea of one, Fish conjures the animal's liquid course by simplifying details like fin and scale, tail and head, into smooth streamline. ("Simplicity," Brancusi believed, "is not an end in art, but we usually arrive at simplicity as we approach the true sense of things.") The material too contributes: a blue-gray marble veined with flecks of flowing white, its surface intimates both movement through water and moving water itself.Brancusi was fascinated by animals, and believed in the primacy of animal consciousness. In reducing animals to elemental shapes, he felt he was approaching the essence of nature. Also, like a number of European artists of his period, he was excited by art from outside the classical tradition so influential in Western aesthetics. The art of Africa, Native America, and the Pacific, and also the art of prehistory (including Cycladic sculpture, a particular influence on Brancusi), took imaginative liberties with human and animal bodies, alternately exaggerating, attenuating, and eliminating their features. These examples liberated Brancusi and others in their treatment of form. By the time he made Fish, in fact, Brancusi seems almost to have left form behind altogether, for something more incorporeal: what he described as the fish's "speed, its floating, flashing body seen through the water . . . the flash of its spirit."
Levine repurposes mass-produced images in order to challenge established ideas about originality and authorship. For her Presidents series she ripped images of women from magazines and assembled them into silhouette portraits of three American presidents—George Washington, Abraham Lincoln, and John F. Kennedy. In President Collage: 1, a cut-out image of a fashion model forms the profile of Washington seen on the quarter, drawing attention to the relationships between power, gender, and consumption.
Levitt has devoted a lifetime of creative energy to photographing the poetry and drama of life on the streets of New York. This picture is from a series made in the late 1930s and early 1940s, when Levitt was in her twenties. It conveys the unrestrained emotions in the spontaneous gestures of children, who were often her subjects. The world-weary boy in the suit jacket in this picture was described by Levitt's friend, the writer James Agee: "He epitomizes for all human creatures in all times the moment when masks are laid aside."Indeed, he and his skeptical companion seem to form a backstage duo, resting between demanding performances.Photographers had begun to explore the poetics of street life in the mid-1920s, with the advent of small hand-held cameras, some of which used roll film, permitting the photographer to make a series of shots in rapid succession. The portability and ease of the small camera changed the way photographs could be made and, consequently, what could be photographed. The commonplace events of daily life could be transformed into art, as Levitt so gracefully demonstrated.
Lewis began his art career as figurative painter, focusing on life in Harlem. In 1946 he announced that he wanted to create art that broke away from what he called "its stagnation in too much tradition." Inspired by the writings and art of the Russian painter Vasily Kandinsky (1866–1944), one of the first artists to create abstract paintings, he abandoned representation in favor of the "conceptual expression" of ideas. Like other Abstract Expressionists working in New York, Lewis was deeply interested in music, and especially jazz, which influenced the painting of Phantasy II. In an automatic process he made a linear composition with boldly colored lines and forms akin to the improvisational structure of jazz.
LeWitt's work emerged alongside the Minimalist and Conceptual art movements of the 1960s, and combines qualities of both. Like the Minimalists, he often uses simple basic forms, in the belief that "using complex basic forms only disrupts the unity of the whole"; like the Conceptualists, he starts with an idea rather than a form, initiating a process that obeys certain rules, and that determines the form by playing itself out. The premise of Serial Project demands the combination and recombination of both open and closed enameled aluminum squares, cubes, and extensions of these shapes, all laid in a grid. Both intricate and methodical, the system produces a visual field that gives its viewers all the evidence they need to unravel its logic.In a text accompanying Serial Project, LeWitt wrote, "The aim of the artist would not be to instruct the viewer but to give him information. Whether the viewer understands this information is incidental to the artist; he cannot foresee the understanding of all his viewers. He would follow his predetermined premise to its conclusion avoiding subjectivity. Chance, taste, or unconsciously remembered forms would play no part in the outcome. The serial artist does not attempt to produce a beautiful or mysterious object but functions merely as a clerk cataloging the results of his premise."
Libeskind's Micromegas Project established many of the concerns of the architect's project City Edge, Berlin, which was included in Deconstructivist Architecture. Named after a short story by the eighteenth-century French historian and philosopher Voltaire, the Micromegas project began with eleven pencil drawings, which subsequently served as studies for a series of prints, including this one. "An architectural drawing," Libeskind has written, "is as much a prospective unfolding of future possibilities as it is a recovery of a particular history, to whose intentions it testifies and whose limits it always challenges. In any case a drawing is more than the shadow of an object, more than a pile of lines, more than a resignation to the inertia of convention." In this print, Time Sections, projected fragments of architectural elements explode across the surface of the paper, illustrating no single moment but alluding to events in both the past and the future. Libeskind was once a serious musician—he was a concert violinist by the age of fifteen—and he did postgraduate work in philosophy and history.
Licko founded Emigre magazine with her husband, fellow typographer and graphic designer Rudy VanderLans, in 1984. The magazine was lauded for its attention to truly innovative graphic design experiments, and it became well-known for its fonts, designed by Licko on the first Apple Macintosh 128K computer. The Mac revolutionized font design: “It forced us to question everything we had learnt about design," Licko has said. She made Oakland and several other of her early digital fonts as bitmap designs. These fonts had  "limited applicability," and were "soon to be rendered obsolete with the impending arrival of high resolution computer screens and printers," she has explained. However, bitmap fonts are enjoying a resurgence, used for nostalgic effect, mostly in print. Licko's fonts and those of other designers are sold through Emigre, Inc., a digital type foundry. The magazine, whose entire run is in MoMA's collection, ceased publication in 2005.
Lightweeds are living digital organisms. They grow indoors but depend on sunshine, rainfall, and wind measured in the outside world through sensors placed on the outer walls of the building (these Lightweeds are responding to information captured by sensors just outside the Museum.) As human traffic—yes, you—goes by, they bend, lose their seeds, and pollinate other walls throughout the space in a constantly evolving wallpaper that reflects the character of the space and its use.
Lightweight (at 1.7 kilograms, or less than 4 pounds), stable, foldable, and compact, the Stockholm II stool was first designed for the National Museum in Stockholm. It is now a staple of institutions worldwide, including MoMA, where it is used on a daily basis.
Ligon took advantage of the velvety textures and embossments that are possible with aquatint and etching to create the densely layered surfaces in these prints. Here he quotes from texts by two preeminent African American writers: Zora Neale Hurston's essay "How It Feels to Be Colored Me" (1928) and Ralph Ellison's novel Invisible Man (1952). By alternately highlighting and obscuring the black words and letters against white and black linen, he has underscored the authors' thoughts about being a black person in a white society. The prints belong to a larger, signature body of text-based works on paper and canvas in which he manipulated the same heavy, stenciled typeface.
Like her husband, Robert Delaunay, Delaunay-Terk was a pioneer of abstraction. Both were members of the Orphist group, whose adherents explored color theory and optical effects and made paintings designed to catalyze profound psychic effects on viewers using color. Portuguese Market was painted while the couple was living in the seaside town of Vila do Conde in Portugal. Figurative elements of the scene, such as the male with a black hat at bottom right, are subsumed within swirling color. Orphists referred to abutted areas of intense color in their paintings as instances of "simultaneity," in which no hue dominated any other. Some of their thinking came from folk and decorative arts; indeed, Delaunay-Terk's work in decorative arts may have helped expand her understanding of the possibilities of abstract color.
Like his friend and fellow artist Diego Rivera, Montenegro spent most of the Mexican Revolutionary period studying abroad in Europe. He was a founder of the Mexican Mural Renaissance and, in 1921, was one of four artists commissioned to create the first government-sponsored murals in Mexico City. He is best known for his fusion of a Surrealist sensibility with a deliberately naive folk-art style. In 1934 Montenegro became the first director of Mexico's Museo de Arte Popular (Museum of popular art), and he spent his life championing Mexican folk art. This painting was included in MoMA's vast 1940 exhibition Twenty Centuries of Mexican Art, which included everything from ancient art to the mural Dive Bomber and Tank, which Orozco painted at the Museum in front of the public during the show. Montenegro curated the popular-arts section of the exhibition.
Like his Minimalist contemporaries, Ryman is a carefully systematic artist, but he has a painter's respect for the qualities of surface and touch. To examine the medium methodically, he imposes two limitations: his paintings are white, and square. Yet white, Ryman shows, changes dramatically depending on what paint is used and how it is applied. Paint lies differently on different supports, and Ryman has used a gamut of materials besides canvas, including cardboard, wood, and aluminum. The scale of his works varies widely. Exploring the way the painting stands against the wall, Ryman has used all the stages between near flush and deep relief. He has also made the painting's hanging devices integral to the composition. In Pace the painting is horizontal. The narrow edge of the work is unpainted redwood. The upward plane is fiberglass, and is painted in a reflective white enamel, while the underside, also white, has a soft, light-absorbent surface. The painting is supported by wall fasteners and aluminum legs. Paintings are always hung vertically against the wall, Ryman realized, because pictures "need to be seen that way. I thought . . . since I'm not really making pictures, a work could possibly not be vertical. It could be just the opposite. . . . I thought I was a little crazy, but I thought, 'I'll try it; it'll be interesting, a challenge.'"Pace. 1984
Like many artists, Picasso looked to the history of art for inspiration. From the late 1940s to the early 1960s he focused with particular intensity on individual works by past masters, making variations in painting, drawing, sculpture, and prints. The work of these historic figures had a catalytic impact on Picasso at a time when contemporary art—the various forms of Abstract Expressionism, for example—was going in directions counter to his own aesthetic concerns.Picasso based this work on one of Rembrandt van Rijn's most revered etchings. He reinterpreted the religious scene as a secular one, depicting a theater filled with the people who had populated his life and art.
Like many artists, Picasso looked to the history of art for inspiration. From the late 1940s to the early 1960s he focused with particular intensity on individual works by past masters, making variations in painting, drawing, sculpture, and prints. The work of these historic figures had a catalytic impact on Picasso at a time when contemporary art—the various forms of Abstract Expressionism, for example—was going in directions counter to his own aesthetic concerns. Picasso tacked a reproduction of a painting by Lucas Cranach the Younger to his studio wall and it became the basis for this linoleum cut.
Like many artists, Picasso looked to the history of art for inspiration. From the late 1940s to the early 1960s he focused with particular intensity on individual works by past masters, making variations in painting, drawing, sculpture, and prints. The work of these historic figures had a catalytic impact on Picasso at a time when contemporary art—the various forms of Abstract Expressionism, for example—was going in directions counter to his own aesthetic concerns.The painting Luncheon on the Grass by Édouard Manet was the starting point for an extensive series by Picasso, including twenty–seven paintings, one hundred and fifty drawings, eighteen maquettes, and five prints.
Like many graphic designers of the late 1980s and early 1990s, Keedy was eager to embrace the computer as a tool but was frustrated by the limited selection of digital typefaces available. Keedy Sans, created in response,  was used in layouts for Emigre magazine and embraced by designers everywhere. Keedy Sans is similar in significance to another important Emigre font, P. Scott Makela's Dead History, also in the collection, designed to celebrate its experimental nature with  letterforms that are intentionally unfinished and imperfect. "Most typefaces are logically systematic; if you see a few letters you can pretty much guess what the rest of the font will look like. I wanted a typeface that would willfully contradict those expectations," Keedy has said.
Like many of Crawford's works, Sanford Tanks depicts industrial subjects, in this case the gasoline tanks lining the river in Sanford, Florida, where the artist spent a number of months as an artist–in–residence. Crawford collapses the foreground space and flattens the forms of the tanks, using them as a means to explore color and its relationship to shape and form. He explained, "I am never concerned with a pictorial logic to the exclusion of feeling. For me, the shape relationships are right only when they feel right, as well as look right."
Like many of Martin Puryear's sculptures, Horsefly, the first of the artist's works to use glass , embraces contradictory elements. In this sculpture, the skeleton of which is formed by steel rods tied carefully together with wrapped wire, the interest resides in the unlikely combination of tar, wire, steel, and glass. Of these contradictions, Puryear has said, "I'm interested in mediating between a feeling of massiveness and fragility to reach a point of extreme vulnerability."
Like many Post–Minimalist artists, Close values handiwork; he has used obsessively time-consuming and labor–intensive techniques to make portraits in a variety of mediums. The meticulous photorealism with which Close began his career, demonstrated in his portrait paintings of the 1970s and 1980s, gave way in the 1990s to an increasingly painterly style. To make Self-Portrait he mapped a large Polaroid photograph onto a roughly drawn grid of squares, then used a somber palette of grays and browns to fill in the squares with organic shapes resembling lozenges, donuts, and hot dogs. Together the shapes form an allover, teeming field of dark–hued abstraction that, from the short distance of a few steps, transforms into a recognizable, head–and–shoulders likeness of the artist. Viewers can see the component parts and the cohesive whole as well as the two-way street between them. In this way they collaborate with the artist in the breakdown and composition of the image.
Like many Surrealist objects, Emak Bakia materialized from a combination of chance discovery and artistic invention. Man Ray found the elegant amputated neck of a double bass at a flea market and paired it with the long, flowing hair of a horse. The light gray horsehair feminizes the instrument's curvaceous forms and is the material typically used to make its bow. Man Ray's enigmatic Basque title for the work, which translates as "leave me alone," is adapted from his 1926 film of the same name. As the title underscores, this object is ultimately an instrument of frustration, from which no music will ever flow.
Like much of the artist's work, this large collage evokes Lidén's subversively humorous interactions with the urban landscape. Untitled (Poster Painting) is an accumulation of paper fliers and advertisements the artist gathered from the street, covered with a layer of pristine white paper. Erasing or silencing the colorful jumble of information, Lidén presents a monochrome—a blank palette at odds with the typically oversaturated metropolitan environment.
Like other Surrealists, Dalí constructed sculpture from disparate found objects. The genesis of this work was his discovery of an inkwell featuring the figures from Jean-Francois Millet's painting The Angelus (1857–59). He embedded the inkwell in a loaf of bread and placed them both on an accessorized bust. The necklace is a strip of repeating images from a zoetrope, a precinematic toy that provides the illusion of movement as it rotates.
Lilly Reich believed that all creative design was tied to the materials and uses of the object and to the techniques with which it was made. Her work as a designer of exhibitions, of clothing and furniture, and of buildings in the Germany of the 1920s and '30s adhered to this essential criterion. Her most important role was unequivocably as an exhibition designer: for over twenty-five years, her distinctive installations allowed the materials and the content of the display to act as its primary determining features. Reich had no formal training in design or architecture, but she learned dressmaking and various craft techniques early on, and her talent in these areas was soon recognized by a circle of women in the avant-garde design field. By 1911 Reich had earned commissions for a department store display and for the interior design and furnishings of a youth center. The event that made this career a life-long pursuit came in 1912, when she joined the Deutsche Werkbund, an organization that promoted German design through exhibitions and educational programs. Her commitment to and distinguished work for the Werkbund were deservedly rewarded in 1920, when she became the first woman elected to the board of directors. In 1927 Reich began a collaboration with Ludwig Mies van der Rohe that would last until the late 1930s. She always retained her own professional office, even when working with Mies on such large-scale and consequential projects as The Dwelling in Our Time. Reich participated in this exhibition as both designer and architect, and she was responsible for five full-scale installations: two apartments, a single-family house, and exhibits of exterior and interior finishing materials and furnishings. The precise and austere drawings shown on these pages, each stamped "Atelier L. Reich", show the plan and elevation for a textile exhibit and a technical detail of a rack for a display of wallpapers. Clearly representing Reich's working process, the drawings are a construction tool rather than an end in themselves. The plan and elevation drawing for the textile exhibit also reveals the graceful, free-flowing spaces that Reich could create using only the materials of the exhibit themselves as partitions between the different sections of the display. The fabrics on show seem to hold themselves up, with few visible signs of underlying support. This minimalist aesthetic discloses Reich's unwavering and enduring commitment to modernist principles of function and simplicity.
littleBits is a hardware library of preassembled circuit boards that connect to one another with magnets, allowing nonexperts to assemble circuit prototypes by snapping together electronic components in an intuitive process. There are over fifty littleBits modules, divided into four categories: power, input, output, and wire. The starter kit contains ten of them, including a pressure sensor, a vibration motor, a wire, and a wall power module.
Little Gallery of the Photo Secession, a.k.a. “291” (Alfred Stieglitz), New York. 1914 –Eugene and Agnes E. Meyer, Washington, D.C., and Mount Kisco, N.Y. [Probably acquired from the above in 1915]The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Eugene and Agnes E. Meyer Collection, given by their family, 1974
Little Gallery of the Photo Secession, a.k.a. “291” (Alfred Stieglitz), New York. By 1915Eugene and Agnes E. Meyer, Washington. D.C., and Mount Kisco, N.Y. [Probably acquired from the above in 1915]The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Eugene and Agnes E. Meyer Collection, given by their family, 1974
Living in Europe in the 1910s, Xul Solar had direct contact with Italian Futurists and German Expressionists. He also became acquainted with various hermetic and occultist traditions, which led him to esotericism, astrology, and divinatory practices. In Argentina during the 1940s and 1950s, Xul Solar delved into the vast world of imaginary toys and plays, combining cabalistic ciphers, words, and hermetic phonemes. In this piece of the mid–1940s, Xul Solar's interest in theater, marionettes, and hexagram elements from the I Ching combine in an enigmatic and beautiful ensemble of objects. They anticipate works produced by the Fluxus movement of the 1960s, which focused on language, formless art, and actions from everyday life.
Lohmann investigates the contradictions in our relationship to animals using offal, off-cuts of leather, and other meat-industry waste products. The Waltraud Cow-Bench is an appropriately cow-shaped upholstered leather bench, a “bovine memento mori,” the designer has said. As lyrical and polemical as her work is, it is always intended to be useful: Waltraud is as comfortable as one dreams a reclining cow would be.
LOMAK is a device that assists people with physical impairments at the computer. "To use the keyboard, the operator controls a beam of light via a hand or head pointer to enter and then confirm key or mouse functions," explains the designer. Confirming each key ensures the correct selection is made, thereby reducing errors and increasing input speed.
Lombardi's elegant flowcharts illustrate the connections between some of the most controversial figures and events in contemporary history. In this drawing, the infamous ballistics inventor Gerry Bull and his company Space Research Corporation are linked with the South African state–supported arms–development corporation Armscor, and the names of individuals and events related to both are spelled out neatly. Trained as a librarian, Lombardi conducted extensive research on corporations, financial transactions, and politics and filed his findings on thousands of index cards. He drew these webs to impose order on complex global networks and make them visible; viewers make their own judgments regarding culpability.
"Look at my sketch, there is everything in it," Eric Mendelsohn once said, referring to the resemblance between his drawings and his finished works: he believed in an organic unity between drawing and building, a unity of a kind that he also saw between building and site. The distinctive sweeping lines of his drawings were intended to capture the immediate appearance of the whole. Mendelsohn's architectural ideas were shaped in the chaotic climate of Germany in the period around World War I, and most dramatically by his close association with leaders of the Expressionist movement. Even his signature style of rendering was developed during his army service in the war: tracing paper was scarce, so he began to use thumbnail sketches to portray the large complexes of his design imagination. This early sketch for Jerusalem's Hadassah University Hospital was made in 1935, the same year Mendelsohn emigrated to Palestine. He was still working out the design, which would go through many more variations. The final complex of buildings, which includes a nursing school and a research institute as well as a hospital, stands on Mount Scopus, overlooking the ancient walled city of Jerusalem and the Moab Mountains. The drawing reveals Mendelsohn's ongoing preoccupation with the plasticity of reinforced concrete, as well as his interest in observation points affording scenic views. As this drawing shows, he was equally concerned with impressive views of the buildings from vantage points below. His consistent choice of exterior perspectives as his primary tools for describing a building, rather than the plans and elevations preferred by most modernist architects, reinforced his vision of the project as an entirety: "My sketches are data, the contour lines of an instantaneous vision. In accordance with their architectural nature, their immediate appearance is that of a whole, and this is how they must be taken."
Looking at the overall shape of this work, what might first come to mind is an intrinsic relationship to pure geometry. However, like many of the artist's works from this period, this study was inspired by empirical observation: one day in 1951, while crossing the Seine River in Paris, Kelly noticed the black shadow of a bridge's arch and its reflection on the water. In 1955, after his return to New York, Kelly executed a wooden relief repeating this shape but making it larger. In this version, which is also in the Museum's collection, he painted the relief white, distancing the motif from its original source and creating an autonomous pictorial statement.
Louise Weber, nicknamed La Goulue (the glutton), is depicted in the Moulin Rouge—a Montmartre cabaret frequented by the Parisian demimonde—flanked by her sister to her right and, to her left, her lover. Toulouse-Lautrec made many paintings of Weber, a star performer known for her appetite. Throughout his work he portrayed unconventional individuals in an audacious manner both frank and sympathetic. The shallow space, bold cropping, and heavy, form-flattening outlines reflect the pictorial devices of Japanese woodblock prints and the work of Edgar Degas, which Toulouse–Lautrec greatly admired. The artist considered this work to be the best of his dance-hall paintings and exhibited it four times the year it was completed.
Louis made Russet by pouring thinned acrylic paintdown a tilted unprimed canvas, allowing gravity, rather than a paintbrush, to dictate its flow and contours. The two dark vertical lines in the painting indicate where he folded the loose canvas to guide the paint in sections. Along the top of the canvas, the vibrant individual colors he used reveal themselves in the edges of this otherwise muted, ethereal painting. The work belongs to a series of breakthrough paintings the artist made between 1954 and 1958, known as Veils because of the translucent layers and billowing shapes of their aqueous pools of color. The title of this work refers to the overall reddish-brown tone of the paint and, like many of Louis's titles, was assigned to the work by Clement Greenberg, an influential American art critic and a close friend of the artist.
Lucas is part of a generation known as Young British Artists (YBAs) that came to attention in the 1990s for their often sensational subject matter.  Many of Lucas's works contain frank sexual content and crudely juxtapose everyday materials. They also often blur masculinity and femininity.  The artist has said, "I like to play around with gender stereotypes. And I like androgyny."
Lucian Freud is among the foremost figurative artists working today. In a career spanning more than six decades, he has redefined portraiture and the nude through his dispassionate and unblinking scrutiny of the human body. His paintings exhibit his fascination with awkwardness and his search for an anti-ideal. Breaks in perspective and seemingly unnatural distortions often render his compositions graceless. Yet these scrupulously observed depictions of Freud's family, friends, and fellow artists display an iconic power unique in contemporary art. Freud made his first etchings in 1946 and then did not touch the medium again until 1982. His rediscovery of etching unleashed an intensive period of printmaking that has resulted in sixty-four prints to date, and, since 1988, all have been made with the same London printer, Marc Balakjian of the Studio Prints workshop. Freud works directly on the copperplates at an easel while his sitters pose. One of his favorite subjects, the Australian performance artist Leigh Bowery, who died in 1995, is depicted in Large Head. The medium has usurped the role of drawing and become integral to his overall work. In fact, printed images often precede painted renderings.Freud's prints are distinguished by their penetrating psychological tension and radical compositional arrangements. Paring down to essentials of line, he achieves a degree of abstraction by eliminating any background or context for his figures. In Lord Goodman in His Yellow Pyjamas, Freud positions the viewer slightly below the face of Lord Goodman, a renowned British lawyer, to enhance the looming confrontational effect, and uses a variety of etched lines to suggest the aging figure's sagging cheeks and scruffy unshaven look. In Benefits Supervisor Sleeping, Freud creates one of his most frank and unnerving images of nakedness. The resulting tension between the physicality of the figure and the flat plane of the paper gives this subject its disturbing impact.
Lyonel Feininger's painting presents insurrectionaries pouring onto the streets of a small French village. The motley band of characters includes a clown, a portly bohemian, elegant ladies, and historically clad characters trailing a cabaret singer, who appears in the lower right corner. A dandy jauntily sidesteps his way into the picture, elbowing a brilliantly colored and grotesquely elongated man who bears a pitchfork topped with a red flag. Faceless men in top hats march along a blank gray wall, which further constricts the narrow space and creates a diagonal that serves to focus the direction of the procession. Feininger emphasizes the movement of the crowd, giving no hint of their goal. The incongruous juxtapositions, including startling differences in scale and clashes of garish colors, recall Feininger's earlier work as a caricaturist and comic-strip illustrator. He based this painting on sketches he made while living in Paris from 1906 to 1908 and on a drawing from 1909 now in the Museum's collection.
Madame Hélène de Mandrot, La Sarraz, Lake Geneva, Switzerland. Gift from the artist, 1932Mrs. Vahan Hagopian, New York. By 1950The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift from Mrs. Vahan Hagopian, November 1950 (accepted MC 1951)
Madame X. Pougny (Mrs. Jean Pougny, born Xénia Bogouslawska, a.k.a. Xana Bougouslavskaya, a Russian painter herself, d. 1972), Paris. Until at least 1967Galerie Gmurzynska, Cologne. By 1968Leonard Hutton Galleries (aka Hutton-Hutschnecker Gallery), New York. By 1971 - 1972The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Acquired from Leonard Hutton Galleries, 1972
Made in 1959, the year Bontecou created her first wall-mounted steel-and-canvas sculptures, this work incorporates soiled canvas taken from conveyor belts discarded by a laundry below the artist's East Village apartment.  She stretched pieces of the fabric across sections of steel armature and fastened them to the metal with wire, creating a surface resembling something between a stained glass window and a patchwork quilt.  While her early reliefs conjure a wide range of associations, this particular one resembles, among other things, an aerial view of an otherworldly landscape. Sputnik, the first man-made satellite, had recently orbited the earth, launching the Space Age. As Bontecou later recalled of this time, "I had a joy and excitement about outer space—nothing was known about the black holes—just huge, intangible, dangerous entities, and I felt great excitement when little Sputnik flew."
Made of glass, this life-size crib threatens any child in its care with shattering collapse and inevitable injury. In spite of its title, neither the crib nor the child would be likely to remain silent for long. The translucent glass tubes evoke medical paraphernalia and the human circulatory system; Hatoum has an ongoing interest in the vulnerability of the body. She has said, "I see furniture as being very much about the body. It is usually about giving it support and comfort," but Silence is part of a series of furniture pieces the artist made which are more hostile than comforting. Here, as in much of her work, Hatoum seeks to strike a balance "between beauty and danger."
Made the year Flavin began to use commercially available fluorescent light tubes, this work marries color and light, bringing them into three dimensions. In dialogue with the surrounding space, the vertical pink tube simultaneously illuminates and obscures the corner—a location not typically used for displaying art. Though the light emitted transcends its physical encasement and transforms the surrounding space, Flavin rejected any characterization of his work as sublime. "One might not think of light as a matter of fact, but I do," he stated. "And it is...as plain and open and direct an art as you will ever find." This work is dedicated to the artist Jasper Johns, who similarly blurred boundaries between real objects and their representation.
Magenta, Black, Green on Orange follows a compositional structure that Rothko explored for twenty–three years beginning in 1947. Narrowly separated, rectangular blocks of color hover in a column against a colored ground. Their edges are soft and irregular, so that when Rothko uses closely related tones, the rectangles sometimes seem barely to coalesce out of the ground, concentrations of its substance. The green bar in Magenta, Black, Green on Orange, on the other hand, appears to vibrate against the orange around it, creating an optical flicker. In fact the canvas is full of gentle movement, as blocks emerge and recede, and surfaces breathe. Just as edges tend to fade and blur, colors are never completely flat, and the faint unevenness in their intensity, besides hinting at the artist's process in layering wash on wash, mobilizes an ambiguity, a shifting between solidity and impalpable depth.The sense of boundlessness in Rothko's paintings has been related to the aesthetics of the sublime, an implicit or explicit concern of a number of his fellow painters in the New York School. In fact, the remarkable color in his paintings was for him only a means to a larger end: "I'm interested only in expressing basic human emotions—tragedy, ecstasy, doom," he said. "If you . . . are moved only by . . . color relationships, then you miss the point."
Maiolino employs paper in nontraditional, highly inventive ways. Black Hole is an example of what she calls "drawing objects." The concentric circles of Black Hole have been torn into layers of black paper, creating the illusion of infinitely receding space and conjuring associations with organic and bodily forms.
Maiolino is concerned with line as a presence in real space. Using sewing thread to mend gaps and create visual connections between her other materials, she questions division and opposition between inside and outside, positive and negative, black and white, and front and back. For her, both sides of a print and drawing are equally important: “I was intrigued by the space at the reverse side of the paper: what is behind it, what is out of sight—the other space of the absent, the latent, the concealed. I began to print both the front and backsides of the paper. Then, through cutting and folding, I was able to discover what was printed on the reverse and to incorporate it in the work together with the void left by the removal of the paper cut from it. Now the print did not only reside in the plane of the sheet, but by adding other dimensions became a graphic object.”
Ma jolie (My pretty girl) was the refrain of a popular song performed at a Parisian music hall Picasso frequented. The artist suggests this musical association by situating a treble clef and music staff near the bold, stenciled letters. Ma jolie was also Picasso's nickname for his lover Marcelle Humbert, whose figure he loosely built using the signature shifting planes of Analytic Cubism. This is far from a traditional portrait of an artist's beloved, but there are clues to its representational content. The central triangular mass subtly indicates the shape of a woman's head and torso, and a group of six vertical lines at the painting's lower center represent the strings of a guitar, which the woman strums. In Cubist works of this period, Picasso and Georges Braque employed multiple modes of representation simultaneously: here, Picasso combined language (in the black lettering), symbolic meaning (in the treble clef), and near abstraction (in the depiction of his subject).
Makela designed this typeface in the period in which digital processes were becoming accepted as mainstream tools for graphic and communication designers. The past, especially in typography, is often an inspiration for contemporary designers; not so for Makela, whose design deemed it "dead." According to him, Dead History "personifies a new attitude in type creation . . .  the result of the computer's capabilities to function as the perfect assembling tool," Makela has said.  He began his design for Dead History by mashing together two existing digital fonts—Linotype's Centennial and Adobe's V.A.G. Rounded—to create something entirely new and unexpected.  Makela used Dead History in a variety of his own designs.
Makhoba produced this linocut for the portfolio Break the Silence!, to which twenty-one artists contributed. The project was spearheaded by Art for Humanity, an organization that uses visual art to address human rights issues, including the HIV/AIDS pandemic in South Africa. Makhoba presents the acronyms as a theatrical graveyard of letters, utilizing the hard-edged contrast attainable with black-and-white linocut. The composition also appeared on billboards throughout urban and rural areas of South Africa where the incidence of HIV/AIDS is particularly high.
Malevich described his aesthetic theory, known as Suprematism, as "the supremacy of pure feeling or perception in the pictorial arts." He viewed the Russian Revolution as having paved the way for a new society in which materialism would eventually lead to spiritual freedom. This austere painting counts among the most radical paintings of its day, yet it is not impersonal; the trace of the artist's hand is visible in the texture of the paint and the subtle variations of white. The imprecise outlines of the asymmetrical square generate a feeling of infinite space rather than definite borders.
Mancuka's diverse body of work investigates time, the subjectivity of history, and lost opportunity. In 2001, while he was artist–in–residence at the Neue Galerie Graz, in Austria, he produced Konference in response to the resplendent eighteenth-century baroque exhibition hall designated for his project. The work imagines one of the European Union conferences that now so frequently fill grand historic spaces across the continent. Mancuska manipulated paper in three-dimensional forms to deconstruct versions of the banal detritus of the now-absent participants, suggesting another futile gathering.
Man Ray became dissatisfied with his original composition for this work inspired by a tightrope performance he had seen in a vaudeville show. He had originally arranged pieces of colored paper cut into the shapes of the tightrope dancer's acrobatic forms. Glancing down at the floor, he noticed that the discarded scraps of paper from which the shapes had been cut formed an abstract pattern resulting from chance. Comparing the accidental pattern with shadows that a dancer might have cast on the floor, he incorporated it into his composition.
Mantinia is a display and titling typeface designed to complement Galliard, an earlier typeface also designed by Carter. It was inspired by the writing of Italian renaissance painter and printmaker Andrea Mantegna, a historical revivalist enamored of ancient Roman inscriptions carved in stone. Mantinia is an all-capital typeface, with a set of small capitals and unusual ligatures (conjoined pairs of letters) that reference the stonecutter's craft.
Manufactured using injection molding, XXXX_Sofa is composed of stud connections, three rings, and bars of four different lengths. The geometric structure is repetitive and elegant, functional and flexible. When compressed, XXXX_Sofa can be easily stored or transported. The same individual parts can be combined differently into a stool, a table, or a bench.
Many artists at Rorke's Drift expressed Christian themes in their work, offering innovative readings of the Bible that echoed political tensions in South Africa. Nkosi was also heavily influenced by the Black Consciousness Movement, founded by Stephen Biko in the mid-1960s, which encouraged the expression of black culture and pride in it. This print is from a series of thirteen linocuts that conveys messages of hope, suffering, and liberation through dramatic depictions of the suffering of a black Christ.
Many of the foundations of The New Typography were derived from the social and artistic experimentation of Constructivist designers in the Soviet Union. The Cyrillic alphabet lent itself to simplification and abstraction, and in these designs for LEF—one of the most famous and widely distributed of the Soviet avant-garde magazines—Rodchenko combined elemental typography with strong color and emblematic photographs or photomontage. Tschichold's extensive collection of Soviet Russian materials such as these magazines made him suspect to Nazi authorities in Munich and led to his arrest in 1933.
Many photographs that exploit the mobility and ease of hand–held cameras are presented as spontaneous observations. In other pictures it is obvious that the photographer has confronted the subjects or asked them to pose. A distinctive aspect of Steinmetz's work is the delicacy with which he has explored the spectrum between these two poles.In the early 1990s, Steinmetz began what would become an extensive series of photographs made in and near Knoxville, Tennessee, many of which describe isolated individuals. The subject is rarely doing much more than smoking a cigarette, drinking a cup of coffee, or responding to the photographer. But the pictures have a grave and deliberate quality that creates an indelible impression of human presence.This picture from the Knoxville series is an exception, for something very dramatic might be happening. Was the man in this photograph in anguish, or did the photographer sense that he could create an image of anguish from a more ordinary circumstance? The picture alone cannot provide the answer, but part of its power resides in the question.
Manzoni considered the two-dimensional surface of painting and drawing not as something “to be filled with colors and forms” but as a place “of unlimited possibilities” in which a line could exist “beyond all problems of composition and size,” he wrote. The line in this work is more than half a mile long, but in theory, Manzoni believed, such a line could stretch to infinity. One of many similar drawings by the artist, Linea m 1000 is invisible, contained in a generic canister; in this way the work anticipated the Conceptual art of the 1960s, in which the idea—in this case, line—was more important than the form of the artwork.
Map of America presents South America in a swirl of colors devoid of national and geographic boundaries. Physical, mental, and social movement is central to the work, which Downey made in conjunction with a road trip from New York through Central and South America. The Chilean-born artist had lived abroad—in France, Spain, and the United States—for nearly a decade, and the trip was the result, he has said, of “a wish to take root once again in the essence of that which was Latin American.” During his travels, Downey videotaped aspects of regional cultures and showed local people his footage to share information and undermine isolation between communities. He later combined his video footage and richly drawn, evocative maps like this one to create the 1976 multimedia installation Video Trans Americas.
Maquiladora is the result of a decade of research by Cruz into the border between the wealthy sprawl of suburban San Diego, California, and the ad hoc, scrappy shantytowns of Tijuana, Mexico. It is a scaffolding system that will allow Tijuana to achieve a greater level of density, a quality Cruz sees as essential to maintaining order in an urban setting already approaching entropy. The scaffolding functions as a frame upon which milk crates, tires, sheets of corrugated metal, rammed earth, and cinder blocks can be arranged, with a particular emphasis on vertical development. Cruz offers the simple modular and rapidly deployable scaffolding system but leaves the rest of the work and design up to the users.
Marcel Broodthaers was a poet and bookseller until age forty, when he turned to Conceptual art by creating a sculptural work composed of fifty copies of one of his poetry books, cast in plaster. He later became known for paradoxical word-image juxtapositions, as well as large-scale installations simulating museum exhibitions and assemblages made in part with eggshells, mussel shells, and European household goods. He also created paintings, films, performances, and sound pieces. In general, Broodthaers's work focuses on the ways in which social, economic, and institutional constructs influence and affect art's meaning. Broodthaers's printed work consists of twenty-six individual prints, several in diptych format, and some twenty artist's books, mostly created to function as part of his Conceptual projects rather than as explorations of printmaking techniques. The diptych Museum-Museum presents Broodthaers's views on an institution of culture, which, he believes, decontextualizes art. Here identical bars of gold bullion are each stamped with an eagle, a reference to the "Eagle Department" in his fictional museum. On the left, they are labeled with artists' names, such as Mantegna, Ingres, and Duchamp, and on the right, with names of commodities such as sugar, tobacco, and chocolate. The bars along the bottom row of each panel carry the following captions: "IMITATION," "KOPIE," "COPIE," "FALSCH," and "ORIGINAL." By integrating issues of art and commerce, Broodthaers raises questions concerning the reduction of art objects to basic exchange commodities. Created for one of his mock museum installations, this print implicates museums for their role as treasuries of artistic currency and for their collaboration in the process of commodification as they act as guarantors of aesthetic values.
[Marcel Duchamp. By 1926]Friedrich Vordemberge-Gildewart, Stuttgart, Germany. By 1967Auction, Moderne Kunst, Galerie Wolfgang Ketterer, Munich, May 17-18, 1968Allan Frumkin Gallery, New York. Purchased at Ketterer auction, May 18, 1968 - December 1968Joan and Lester Avnet. Purchased from Allan Frumkin Gallery, December 1968 – 1978The Museum of Modern Art, New York. The Joan and Lester Avnet Collection, 1978
Marcel Duchamp defies categorization. His conceptual investigations of art as idea undermined what he called the "retinal" or visual appeal of art. Throughout his career, he created editioned projects, many expressly intended to confound issues of originality and authorship. In all he completed one hundred fifty multiples, illustrated books, periodicals, prints, and posters. Following his initial experimentation with Cubist painting in the early teens, Duchamp emerged as a fiercely independent figure in the Parisian and New York art worlds, encountering the Dada and Surrealist groups from time to time. Among the varied works in his oeuvre, he published three facsimile collections of his working notes. Self-published under the moniker of Duchamp's feminine alter ego, Rrose Sélavy, The Green Box was meant to be a complementary text for his 1915-23 work The Large Glass, now at the Philadelphia Museum of Art. But instead of explaining the iconography of this work, its contents are poetic and ambiguous, even cryptic, offering often contradictory meanings. In all there are ninety-four painstakingly reproduced notes and diagrams, on various sizes and types of paper, in different colored inks. There are also photographs of The Large Glass taken by Man Ray before it was accidentally broken in transit, and of dust collecting on one of its glass panels, as well as several reproductions of related works by Duchamp. Originally executed between 1911 and 1920, these notes and sketches include ideas for The Large Glass, among them stories about the so-called Bride and Bachelors portrayed there. Duchamp wanted these notes to be presented in random order in The Green Box, so that each reader's individual choices and personal preferences could determine a chance sequence.
Marclay, an artist who has been exploring visual and audio crosscurrents for twenty years, plastered more than five thousand blank musical notation sheets in public spaces throughout Berlin during a month-long sound festival in 1996. Members of the public filled them in with standard musical notations as well as scribbles, drawings, and random marks. Marclay then photographed the graffitied sheets, selected 150 from the group, and compiled them into a book, creating a musical score. This selection of prints makes visible the usually intangible elements of music, like beat and rhythm.
Marclay created this monumental work by unspooling magnetic tapes from music cassettes (by the bands and musicians named in the work's title) and draping them across light-sensitive paper. The dramatic, swirling forms recall Abstract Expressionist paintings of the 1950s, an area of great strength in MoMA's collection. Printmaking is one of the tools Marclay uses in his ongoing exploration of the intersection between sound, performance, and the visual arts, incorporating unconventional approaches, such as printing from inked vinyl LPs.
Marey, a physiologist, had been studying motion for two decades when the work of the American photographer Eadweard Muybridge led him to try photography in 1881. Unlike Muybridge, who used a battery of cameras to make a sequence of separate frames (like the frames in a movie), Marey recorded the successive phases of motion on single plate. Thus, his studies at once analyze motion and present a virtual image of its course. Photography has radically enhanced our ability to study the world around us (and the skies beyond) by making visible what once had been too distant, too small, too fast, or otherwise too difficult to see. Many such pictures were made in the service of science, but their impact often has been much broader than their original scientific function. The influence of Marey's pictures on the Futurist painters, such as Giacomo Balla and Gino Severini, who sought to evoke dynamic motion in their work, is only the most familiar example.Demenÿ worked as Marey's assistant from 1881 to 1893 and then applied Marey's method to the physical training program of the French army. This picture, whose successive exposures were timed to match the strides of the runner, may have been made by him.
Maria Ey, Düsseldorf (Gallery)Paul Gustave (and Norine) Van Hecke, Brussels. [By 1929?]Walter Schwarzenberg (Galerie Le Centaure), Brussels. By 1932Auction sale of Schwarzenberg collection, Galerie Georges Giroux, Brussels, February 1-2, 1932Victor Servranckx, Brussels. Purchased from Schwarzenberg auction, February 1932 - 1937The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Purchased from Victor Servranckx, 1937
Maria Marc (1876-1955), Ried, 1916 [1]; Lyonel Feininger (1871–1956), Weimar, Dessau and New York [2]; by inheritance to Julia Feininger, New York, 1956; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1965 (Gift of Julia Feininger). [1] Hoberg, Annegret, Franz Marc, and Isabelle Jansen, eds. Franz Marc: The Complete Works. vol. 3. London: Philip Wilson Publishers, 2004, p. 255.[2] Ibid.
Maria Marc (1876-1955), Ried, Germany, until at least 1936 [1]. Curt Valentin, New York; John S. Newberry (1910-1964), New York, by 1948 [2]; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1964 (John S. Newberry Collection).[1] "Nachlass Franz Marc bestätigt Maria Marc/ Blaues Pferd mit Regenbogen" verso, lower center sheet, pencil, hand of Maria Marc. See Alois J. Schardt, Franz Marc, Berlin: Rembrandt-Verlag, 1936, p. 168, no. 20 ("Pferd im Regenbogen"), which lists the work as being in the collection of Maria Marc. Included in the exhibition "Franz Marc: Gedächtnisausstellung," Galerie Nierendorf, Berlin, May 1936 (no. 62: Pferd im Regenbogen, 1914).  [2] Included in the exhibition "Drawings and Watercolors, XIX and XX Centuries: From the Collection of John S. Newberry, Jr.," Fogg Museum of Art, Harvard University, Cambridge, February 12-March 31, 1948.
Marie Schiele, the artist's mother (Estate of Egon Schiele), 1918; bequeathed to Gertrude ("Gerti") Peschka-Schiele, the artist's sister, Vienna, 1935 [1]. Sold to Serge Sabarsky (1912-1996), New York; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1985 (Gift of Jo Carole and Ronald S. Lauder).[1] Stamp "NACHLASS/ EGON SCHIELE" on verso.
Mario Broglio, Rome & Cuneo, Italy / Coll. Valori Plastici. On consignment, October 1919; acquired January 1, 1921 - August 1922Giorgio de Chirico. Reacquired in August 1922[Gala and Paul Eluard, Paris]Gala Dali, Paris. Until 1935Pierre Matisse Gallery, New York. On consignment from Gala Dali, through Paul Eluard, 1935James Thrall Soby (1906-1979), New Canaan, Connecticut. Purchased from Gala Dali / Paul Eluard through Pierre Matisse, December 4, 1935 - 1969The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift of James Thrall Soby, 1969
Marisol designed this composition as a poster for her print retrospective at the New York Cultural Center in 1973. The unsettling image is a self-portrait surrounded by an aura of the artist's traced hands.
Marshall's Vignette series continues his exploration of the representation of the black figure in art. The artist works in traditional pictorial genres, explicitly referencing various artistic styles and techniques as a part of his critical investigation of the pretensions of art history. In this study for a painting, a couple is posed in a loving embrace in an idyllic landscape, encircled by large, cartoonish pink hearts, a reference to the frivolity and sentimentality that characterizes eighteenth-century French Rococo painting. Deploying nostalgia, Marshall meditates on beauty, love, romance, and harmony in the black experience.
Martin Puryear's career began with a brief period of printmaking that was rekindled only recently. Early on he displayed a facility for drawing, a voracious appetite for learning about subjects as diverse as ornithology, archery, and Native American history, and a particular aptitude for building useful objects. During a two-year stint in the Peace Corps in Sierra Leone, he developed an interest in and respect for the wood carvers of that region. Upon his return, he was accepted at Sweden's Royal Academy of Art as a printmaking student. There Puryear found himself deeply drawn to Scandinavian wood carving and began spending his evenings in the sculpture studio while also accepting unofficial apprenticeships with local craftspeople. When he returned to the United States, he enrolled in the art program at Yale, absorbing the current developments in Minimalism, post-Minimalism, earthworks, and site-specific sculpture. Puryear's work, consisting primarily of sculpture in wire mesh, tar, bronze, leather, and his preferred medium of wood, reflects these diverse influences and experiences. Abstractions that resemble organic and biomorphic shapes suggest a usefulness or functionality and often reveal a labor-intensive handcraftsmanship and an interest in culture and identity. Since the 1980s, he has resumed printmaking at various workshops, gravitating toward direct, physical mediums such as etching and woodcut. Puryear has made approximately twenty-five prints, many of which echo the forms of his sculptures, including this Untitled work. The woodcuts for Cane, a poetic novel of the Harlem Renaissance, combine organic forms and figurative presences and are named for the female characters in the story.
Mary Hoyt WiborgValentine Gallery, New YorkJames Thrall Soby, New Canaan, Connecticut. Purchased from Valentine Gallery, April 22, 1932 - 1961The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift of James Thrall Soby, 1961
Masson made Battle of Fishes  by freely applying gesso to areas of the canvas, throwing sand on it, then brushing away the excess. The resulting contours suggested forms "although almost always irrational ones," according to the artist around which he rapidly sketched and applied paint directly from the tube. The image that emerged suggests a savage underwater battle between sharp–toothed fish. Masson, who was physically and spiritually wounded during World War I, joined the Surrealist group in 1924. He believed that, if left to chance, pictorial compositions would reveal the sadism of all living creatures.
Matisse began Back, his largest sculpture to date, in spring 1908 in his studio in Paris and worked on it for over a year, keeping the clay wet in order to do so. In June 1909, as he prepared to move to his new studio in the Paris suburb of Issy-les-Moulineaux, he cast the relief in plaster, thereby destroying the original. Now working in plaster, he changed his methods, adding fresh material to the hard, rewetted surface and removing hardened forms with chisels, hammers, and rasps. Matisse returned to Back several times over the next twenty-one years, each time beginning with a plaster cast of the previous state. He also preserved a plaster version of each state, and, cast in bronze, they are the works we know today—Back (I), Back (II), Back (III), and Back (IV).
Matisse began Back (II) from a plaster cast of Back (I), which he reduced by carving and built up with more plaster as he worked, creating a more angular and massive form. He removed details from the head, hair, neck, and shoulders and reformulated the curving, S-shaped spine and soft flesh to produce a solid, stocky figure with a more geometric build.
Matisse described the abstract zone at the right of this composition as containing "a person who has a palette in his hand and who is observing." Most likely, it is the artist himself. The surrealist poet André Breton said of the painting, "I believe Matisse's genius is here . . . nowhere has Matisse put so much of himself as in this picture."
Matisse made several views of Notre Dame cathedral from his quai Saint-Michel studio in 1914. In February his friend Marcel Sembat wrote about two views the artist had completed, one "very beautiful", the other "lopsided", which "no one would understand immediately" but he preferred. Matisse reworked features of this canvas before covering almost the entire surface in blue. He left early compositional elements visible beneath the paint, accentuating the temporal quality of building a work of art over time.
Matisse painted this oil sketch in the summer of 1904, while working alongside fellow artist Paul Signac on the French Riviera, and he completed the final painting (now at the Musée d'Orsay, Paris) the following winter. Both Signac and Matisse were influenced by the elder painter Paul Cézanne, whose discrete strokes of color emphasized the materiality of the painted surface over naturalistic illusion. But Matisse went further, using a palette of pure, high-pitched colors (blue, green, yellow, and orange) to render the landscape, and outlining the figures in blue. The painting takes its title from a line by the nineteenth-century poet Charles Baudelaire and shares the poems subject of an escape to an imaginary, tranquil refuge.
Matisse took Woman on a High Stool through many changes as he worked, particularly the seated figure. Perhaps the greatest alteration was in color: vivid blue, green, and orange-red areas have been mostly covered with layers of gray. Here, as in his earlier blue paintings, the artist may have embraced a restriction of color for the formal and expressive potential it presented. The painting shares its simplified geometric forms, heavy contouring, and austere palette with the work of Cézanne and Cubist paintings Picasso and Georges Braque made a few years earlier. This work represents Germaine Raynal, wife of the Cubist critic Maurice Raynal.
Matisse turned this intimate scene of his daughter, Marguerite, reading into a riot of color—her hair is painted in nearly as many colors as the fruit in the foreground. The artist developed this bold palette  in the summer of 1905 in the southern port town  of Collioure, France. There, painting alongside his friend the artist André Derain, he fulfilled his goal  of learning "how to make my colors sing." Most critics judged his colors less than favorably, deriding Matisse and fellow artists as fauves, or "wild beasts," but shortly after this painting was made  it was purchased by the supportive art critic and dealer Felix Fénéon.
Matta-Clark cut these fragments from the facade of a house in Niagara Falls, New York, that was about to be demolished by the local housing commission. Working with a small team over the course of ten days, he cut the facade into nine equivalent rectangles then removed each one until only the central rectangle remained, like the central section of a Bingo card. Minutes after they finished the extraction, the house was razed. The artist retained three sections and deposited the remaining five in a nearby sculpture park, where he hoped they would be "gradually reclaimed by the Niagara River Gorge."Matta-Clark was raised in New York City, and he had witnessed firsthand the constant demolition of older buildings for the construction of new ones, the result of shifting real estate values. "Work with abandoned structures," he wrote around 1974, "began with my concern for the life of the city, of which a major side effect is the metabolization of old buildings." The presence of empty and neglected buildings in urban centers is "a reminder of the ongoing fallacy of renewal through modernization."
Matthew Carter's career coincided with dramatic technological developments in typeface design brought about by the spread of computers as universal design and production tools. Carter began when typefaces were families of lead blocks, one for each character or punctuation mark, and a series of blocks for each style and for each point size, and then moved seamlessly to the digital realm when commissioned by the telecom company AT&T. On the company's hundredth anniversary, Carter created Bell Centennial, a typeface designed to solve a technical and aesthetic problem introduced by changing technology. Bell Gothic, the company's existing typeface, had been designed for use on a linotype printing press, and its letterforms became eroded when run through the new offset presses, especially when used in lighter weights. Printers attempted to correct the problem by adding more ink, overcoating the type and making the letters harder to read. Using CRT composition, Carter increased the widths of the letters to prevent the separation of strokes (where the leg of an h meets its stem, for example) or the crowding of letters at small sizes. Carter also compensated for the thin ink and cheap newsprint used for phonebooks by creating "ink traps" where the strokes of the letters come together; they fill in with ink, creating a well-formed (not over-inked) letter.
[Maurice de Vlaminck, Paris, 1908] [1]. Acquired by Alfred Flechtheim, Düsseldorf, by 1912 [2]; sold through Paul Cassirer, Berlin and Hugo Helbing, Munich to Sally Falk, Mannheim (1888-1962), June 5, 1917 [3]; sold to Paul Cassirer, Berlin, April 11, 1918 [4]; sold to Oskar Moll (1875-1947), Breslau , April 20, 1918 [5]. Acquired  by Alfred Gold (1875-1958), Berlin, Paris and New York, by 1932 [6]. Justin K. Thannhauser (1892-1976), New York [7]; sold to Samuel A. Marx and Florene M. Marx  (later Schoenborn), New York, 1951 [8]; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1996 (Florene May Schoenborn Bequest).[1] Per Pierre Daix, Picasso: The Cubist Years, Boston: New York Graphic Society, 1979, no. 105.[2] Ibid. Included in the "Internationale Kunstausstellung" of the Sonderbund Cologne, May 25-September 30, 1912  (no. 217:  Frauenkopf), . Lender: Alfred Flechtheim.[3] See auction catalogue Galerie Flechtheim: Moderne Gemälde, Paul Cassirer, Berlin and Hugo Helbing, Munich, June 5, 1917 (no. 203).[4] Roland Dorn et al., Stiftung und Sammlung Sally Falk, Mannheim: Städtische Kunsthalle, 1994, p. 185, no. 297.[5] Ibid. [6] Included in the exhibitions Picasso, Galerie Georges Petit, Paris, June 16-June 30, 1932 (no. 47) and Picasso, Kunsthaus Zurich,  September 11-October 30, 1932 (no. 39: Lender "M. Alfred Gold, Paris").  See Christian Zervos, Pablo Picasso, t. II, vol. 1 (1942):  "Coll. Alfred Gold, Paris."  [7] Label on verso: "J.K. Thannhauser / 12 EAST 67th STREET / NEW YORK 21, N.Y."  [8] See The School of Paris: Paintings from the Florene May Schoenborn and Samuel A. Marx Collection, The Museum of Modern Art, New York, November 1, 1965-October 2, 1965 (p. 17).
Max Beckmann's Kreuzabnahme (Descent from the cross) presents an unflinching look at bodily suffering—a timely topic in the midst of a seemingly never-ending war. Multiple perspectives are combined to focus the eye on Jesus's oversize corpse, his pale flesh covered in bruises and sores, with coagulated blood pooling around the gaping black holes of the stigmata. His emaciated arms stretch across the picture and in their rigor mortis still mirror the shape of the cross. Beckmann thinly and precisely applied paint in cold, restrained hues, in contrast to his exuberant brushwork for his prewar canvases.Beckmann possibly made this painting to answer a challenge posed by curator Gustav Hartmann to create a modern work as powerful as medieval German art, which they had viewed together in Frankfurt (along with works by Italian, Flemish, and German Old Masters that significantly influenced Beckmann's style). Beckmann, after spending a few years making only prints, had recently returned to painting.
Max Pechstein's deliberately crude execution—rough gouges, simplified forms, and contrasts of color—heightens the primitivist atmosphere of his subject, an African dance. The closed-eyed flutist is totally given over to the raw power of the music. The dancers move ecstatically to the beat of the drum, with their heads thrown back and feet pounding the earth, completely in touch with nature.  Pechstein, like his fellow members of the Brücke, embraced the arts of Africa and other non-European cultures as more authentic and uncorrupted antidotes to the stultified refinement of German society. These performances, however, were no less artificial or commercialized than cabarets featuring European performers. Pechstein based this print, for example, on a Somali dance he saw at an ethnographic show in Berlin or Dresden. These Völkerschauen, products of colonialism that were usually held in zoos, displayed the lives of "natural peoples" for the entertainment of European audiences.
McCarthy is best known for his elaborate performances. This monumental and expressive drawing is an extension of that practice, created on the floor of Edge Gallery in Fullerton, California. "It was an intentional decision," McCarthy said, "to do the drawing as an action."  The artist's interest in childhood, sexuality, and the body are hightlighted by strong, forceful lines that recall the physical creation of the work, as well as the narrative development of the figures.  Baby bottles, phallic forms, and various other images meld together in a frenzy of performative activity.
McCollum explores duplication in his art, investigating how objects achieve personal and social significance in a society driven by mass production.  Here he uses the software program Adobe Illustrator with the goal of producing a unique artwork for every person on Earth. His system has the capacity to produce thirty-one billion shapes, far more than peak–population estimates for the mid–twenty–first century, when a decline is predicted to set in.
McElheny effectively fuses art and design, fact and fiction, and depth and the devices of illusionism. His work juxtaposes the old-world craftsmanship of traditional glassblowing with provocative references to historical models and design objects. Modernity, Mirrored and Reflected Infinitely is at once a document of history and an appealing object.In this work, made of mirrored blown-glass bottles placed on a flat mirrored shelf, McElheny pushes the optical nature of reflection into a new sculptural condition. The faces of the cabinet are two-way mirrors, so viewers look into a brightly lit space of pure reflection, filled with a seemingly infinite number of seductive, gleaming, curvilinear forms. These forms are based on nine decanters designed in the 1950s and 1960s by well-known modern glass designers: Carlo Scarpa, his son Tobia Scarpa, Fulvio Bianconi, Paolo Venini, and others. The work carefully replicates these objects and radically transforms them, obliquely alluding to a narrative of design history without literally invoking a particular story. McElheny provides a meditation on modern design that is perfectly self-contained and self-referential; tightly encapsulated in its hermeticism, it offers the viewer continuous sensory delectation.
Measures of Distance is an uncharacteristically autobiographical work which, Hatoum has said, speaks of displacement, disorientation and a tremendous sense of loss as a result of the separation caused by war. Hatoum was born to Palestinian parents living in exile in Beirut. In 1975, while visiting London, Hatoum herself became an exile; war broke out in Lebanon and Hatoum stayed in England. In this video, the artist overlaid footage of her mother with scrolling Arabic script—the text of letters Hatoum's mother wrote to her from Beirut, which the artist reads aloud in English. This sound track is interspersed with candid dialogues between mother and daughter.
M.E. CulbergPierre Matisse Gallery, NY. By January 1947 - 1958Nina and Gordon Bunshaft, New York, N.Y. Purchased from Pierre Matisse, March 1958 - 1994The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Nina and Gordon Bunshaft Bequest, 1994
Meet Me in St. Louis grew out of a series of decidedly undramatic stories by Sally Benson about her midwestern childhood that were first published in The New Yorker magazine. MGM screenwriters labored to create a plot until Arthur Freed, the head of MGM's famed musical production unit, decided the film should be a vehicle for former child star Judy Garland. In the film, Garland plays Esther, a daughter in the Smith family of St. Louis, who sings her way through the seasons from summer 1903 to spring 1904, as the city prepares for the 1904 Louisiana Purchase Exposition. Among her many tunes, Esther sings "The Trolley Song," discovering the clang, clang, clang of her heartbeat because she is in love. Minnelli highlighted the simplicity and naturalness of her acting and singing, which captivated audiences.Following his success in the 1930s as a director and designer for the Broadway theater, Minnelli moved on to Hollywood as a member of Freed's unit at MGM, bringing to this popular genre a fresh approach. Whereas others were reluctant to use Technicolor, Minnelli understood and embraced the new process, showing off the dazzling brightness of its colors. He became one of Hollywood's most accomplished colorists and a master of cinematic musical comedy. Minnelli set a new standard for the genre, smoothly inserting dance numbers into the narrative in a blend of naturalism and fantasy, as realistic characters discover and declare their hopes, fears, or loves. He simultaneously hid and revealed the darker side of domestic America, the fragility of its structure and the terror of possible change.
Meireles creates sculptures and installations that tie everyday materials to larger political and philosophical concerns. Thread is a modular cube, a form evocative of the geometric rationality of Minimalist art, but it is constructed of a material generally associated with agriculture. A gold wire encircles the mass of hay. At one end of the wire, a single 18-carat gold needle is inserted into the cube, recalling the common expression, "Like finding a needle in a haystack." The pairing of substances with vastly different monetary values but that here are nearly indistinguishable visually suggests the precariousness of economic relationships, and the minute needle embedded in the massive cube may call to mind the place of the individual within a larger social system.
Mel Bochner's first solo exhibition in 1966 at the School of Visual Arts in New York has been described as the first exhibition of Conceptual art. Born in Pittsburgh, he received his BFA from the Carnegie Institute of Technology in 1962 and throughout the 1960s explored linguistic and mathematical systems through installations and drawings. In the ensuing decades, his work in painting, photography, and printmaking has continued to demonstrate an underlying basis in Conceptual thinking. Bochner created his first prints in 1973 at the invitation of publisher Robert Feldman of Parasol Press, who, working with Crown Point Press, introduced a generation of Minimalist and Conceptual artists to printmaking. Since then Bochner has worked in various print techniques, focusing predominantly on aquatint and monoprint. Since 1995 he has made more than two hundred monoprints in collaboration with David Lasry at Two Palms Press in New York. His editioned prints number about seventy. Rules of Inference is based on two similarly titled previous works: a site-specific floor installation from 1972 and a charcoal-and-gouache drawing from 1973. In the installation, the numbers from one through nine are represented by configurations of pebbles inferred from mathematical principles and connected by chalk lines. The drawing echoes the installation, with black circles on white paper. The third generation of this Conceptual work is the print, with a deep black aquatint surface that does not include connective lines. Its impact is of a more indeterminate and mysterious nature than its predecessors, obscuring the artist's basis in logic and certainty. In fact, the subject of all these works is not the specific mathematical principles from which they were derived, but rather the relationships between things and the process of perceiving these relationships.
Memory of Oceania is based on a photograph that Matisse took of a schooner from his window in Tahiti in 1930. At the right, the green rectangle, fuchsia band, black curve, and blue crescent appear to derive from the boat, the boat's mast and mooring line, and the curtain of the window. More uncertain is the meaning (if any) of the shapes at the upper left. They may describe a blond woman seen from the back—the sharp vertical line being her spine and the surrounding blue–on–white and white–on–blue curves the contours of her body.
Mesh Chair, the designer has explained, is manufactured like a piece of clothing: “Its pattern parts are cut out of a sheet of expanded metal mesh. The pieces are welded together along the seams resulting in a shape that becomes rigid because of its three-dimensionality. The powder coating softens the metal mesh. In this way upholstery and construction have become one.”
Meshes of the Afternoon is one of the most influential works in American experimental cinema. A non-narrative work, it has been identified as a key example of the "trance film," in which a protagonist appears in a dreamlike state, and where the camera conveys his or her subjective focus. The central figure in Meshes of the Afternoon, played by Deren, is attuned to her unconscious mind and caught in a web of dream events that spill over into reality. Symbolic objects, such as a key and a knife, recur throughout the film; events are open-ended and interrupted. Deren explained that she wanted "to put on film the feeling which a human being experiences about an incident, rather than to record the incident accurately."Made by Deren with her husband, cinematographer Alexander Hammid, Meshes of the Afternoon established the independent avant-garde movement in film in the United States, which is known as the New American Cinema. It directly inspired early works by Kenneth Anger, Stan Brakhage, and other major experimental filmmakers. Beautifully shot by Hammid, a leading documentary filmmaker and cameraman in Europe (where he used the surname Hackenschmied) before he moved to New York, the film makes new and startling use of such standard cinematic devices as montage editing and matte shots. Through her extensive writings, lectures, and films, Deren became the preeminent voice of avant-garde cinema in the 1940s and the early 1950s.
Mies van der Rohe emigrated from Germany to the United States in 1938, ostensibly to take up the position of head of the architecture school at the Armour Institute of Technology, Chicago. Perhaps more important to him, though, was his understanding with the president of Armour, Henry Heald, that he would be the architect of the school's master plan for a new campus-an unprecedented opportunity for him to design an assemblage of structures in an urban center. Mies undertook preliminary studies for the campus plan between 1939 and 1941. The studies reflect the urban street grid of Chicago; in this example, a dozen or so flat-roofed two- and three-story brick buildings are arranged so that they mirror each other across 33rd Street. While in Germany, Mies had served as the director of the Bauhaus school (from 1931 until its closing in 1933), and had taught architecture to senior students. At Armour, however—renamed the Illinois Institute of Technology (IIT) shortly after his arrival there—he taught not a master class but a curriculum patterned after the Bauhaus Vorkours, preliminary courses that taught essential skills to students before they advanced to designing initially simple structures. His relationship to his IIT students, then, and their relationship to his work, were significantly different, and he was able to direct their entire architectural education from draftsmanship to urban design. In fact many of the drawings Mies produced in America, including this one, display a mixture of hands: students who had mastered his drafting style (and many of whom would eventually work in his office) would develop the base drawing to his specifications, and he would then add texture, shadow, trees, and other landscape elements to make the drawing complete. When Mies began the master plan for IIT, the college was still known as the Armour Institue of Technology. The name was officially changed in 1940 to the Illinois Institute of Technology.
Miller's repetition of images, numbers, and words creates complex abstract patterns. The varying density of the lines, obliterating any discernable form, reflects the artist's compulsions. His fixations on daily objects, such as lightbulbs and other household appliances, are represented through repetitive spelling and sketching. The artist's obsessive method reflects his attempt to organize and process the world around him.
Miller was inspired by the style of the typefaces designed in Scotland during the first decades of the nineteenth century. In the United States they became known as Scotch Roman typefaces and were used widely in the nineteenth century for newspapers. Thanks to their vertical stress and roundness and their tall x-heights, the letters show up very well at small sizes and on ink-thirsty, low-quality newsprint. A special adaptation of Miller was created for the Guardian newspaper in London, and it has been used in newspapers including the Hindustan Times and the Boston Globe.
Minimalist artist Donald Judd is known primarily for his work as a sculptor, but he began his career as a painter and writer of art criticism and theory. Although his earliest paintings of landscapes and figures are in a traditional style, Judd soon began to work in an abstract mode, and shortly thereafter turned to sculpture. Between 1964 and 1966, he and other artists of his generation developed the vocabulary of Minimalism. His simple forms included boxes made of wood, metal, or industrial plastic placed directly on the floor rather than on bases or pedestals. Of particular interest to Judd was the idea of seriality, embodied in his work by progressions or repetition of standard units, and epitomized by his "stacks," groups of wall-mounted boxes forming columns of alternating solids and voids of equal size. Seriality was also present in Judd's work as a printmaker, which began with figurative lithographs in 1951 and eventually grew to include approximately three hundred editions, many of them woodcuts, the most sculptural of all print mediums. In 1961 Judd began a woodcut series depicting variations on a single form, the parallelogram. Over the next eight years, the series of twenty-six prints came together in a variety of ways. Some began as wall sculptures made of unfinished lumber that Judd later decided to ink and print, essentially creating a two-dimensional manifestation of a three-dimensional sculpture. Others, including this Untitled work, were specifically designed as prints, with wood matrices carved according to Judd's design by his father, Roy C. Judd, who served as the printer for this project. After they were printed, these woodblocks were considered sculptural objects. Another series was created by printing twelve of the blocks in cerulean blue. Judd returned to the paralellogram form repeatedly, making similar serial explorations in etching and aquatint.
Miniscule marks of racist caricature—such as blubber lips and popping eyeballs—pervade the sheets of lined penmanship paper that cover Gallagher's canvases. These shorthand signs look abstract from a distance, but on closer scrutiny the stock derogatory emblems of black minstrelsy become apparent. The title Oh!Susanna refers to Stephen Foster's 1848 American folk song of the same name, which originated from a slave lament about families torn apart. The song's racial element was erased when it became popular in the West, associated with the California Gold Rush. The artist explains, "A very specific loss became universal once race was removed." Gallagher's work disrupts the idea that race and identity are predetermined or fully fixed.Through repetitions and inversions she reintroduces taboo aspects of history to question whether core assumptions have changed.
Miró assigned this pastel the title Woman, aiming for something "unpretentious and very ordinary," he said, but the work has come to be known as Opera Singer because of the figure's open mouth and what is often identified as sheet music in her right hand. She is rendered in acidic, highly saturated, and dissonant colors, with flagrantly displayed genitalia.
Miyake and Fujiwara's A–POC (A Piece of Clothing) Queen Textile is an innovative outfitting system that produces self–tailored clothing through mass production, a marriage of systems that seem inherently at odds. An industrial weaving machine is preprogrammed to spin an enormous, continuous tube of fabric. A repeating pattern of seams is woven into the tube, creating a patchwork of shapes whose outlines begin to suggest dresses, shirts, socks, gloves, and hats. The customer can cut along the seams without destroying the tubular structure of each individual item. The result is a puzzle of monochromatic articles of clothing that leaves behind virtually no wasted material.Each item is designed to be slightly oversized when cut from the roll, allowing users to further customize their garments with scissors—sleeve length, bias, and neckline are just a few of the possibilities. By making the wearer the ultimate designer of the outfit, Miyake and Fujiwara's rapid, efficient, and infinitely customizable system pushes conventional textile technology and creates everyday clothing that transcends ephemeral fashion trends.
M. Knoedler & Co., New YorkJames Thrall Soby (1906-1979), New Canaan, Connecticut and New York, New York. Purchased from Knoedler, November 24, 1931 -1979The Museum of Modern Art, New York. James Thrall Soby Bequest, 1979
[Modern Gallery (Marius de Zayas), New York]Eugene and Agnes E. Meyer, Washington, D.C., and Mount Kisco, N.Y. [Acquired before or during WWI]The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Eugene and Agnes E. Meyer Collection, given by their family, 1974
Mojibakeru is derived from the Japanese words "moji" (character) and "bakeru" (to change). As the name suggests, these shape-shifting toys transform from the appropriate Japanese kanji pictograms into animals. With a few deft movements, Inu, the kanji character for "dog," goes from black-and-white pictogram to Dalmatian, complete with movable tail. Mojibakeru is both a learning tool and a tangible demonstration of the historical link between symbol and object. Eighteen different figures are available, in various colors.
Molzahn was a painter-turned-typographer who studied at the art school in Weimar that became the Bauhaus in 1919. He taught typography and graphic design in Magdeburg, Germany, before moving to the Breslau Kunstakademie (art school) in 1928, and was a founding member of the Ring Neuer Werbegestalterr (Circle of new advertising designers). Throughout the 1920s he remained in close touch with Walter Gropius and other members of the Deutsche Werkbund, the German association for industrial design reform that commissioned stationery, publicity materials, and posters from several adherents of The New Typography.
Monahan used collaged printed papers to assemble this figure at a writing desk. Modeled with charcoal shading, the paper segments have the reflective look of metal, giving the figure the appearance of an ancient warrior or a futuristic automaton. Monahan has displayed a consistent allegiance to figuration in his work but has also noted "how inanimate the figure can be." "There are moments when the face really comes alive and the body seems to twist of its own volition, when the figure comes at you," he has said, "but I seem to go out of my way to ruin it, to push the gaze back inward and paralyze the body as if caught in the rigidity of a trance."
Mondrian's abstracted pier—the vertical lines at the base of the oval—stretches into an ocean of short lines and crosses that suggest flickering light on the surface of water. The artist forged his approach to abstraction through Cubism, which he encountered during the two years he lived in Paris, from 1912 to 1914. He said, "I wish to approach truth as closely as is possible, and therefore I abstract everything until I arrive at the fundamental quality of objects."
Mondrian, who had escaped to New York from Europe after the outbreak of World War II, delighted in the city's architecture. He was also fascinated by American jazz, particularly boogie-woogie, finding its syncopated beat, irreverent approach to melody, and improvisational aesthetic akin to what he called, in his own work, the "destruction of natural appearance; and construction through continuous opposition of pure means—dynamic rhythm." In this painting, his penultimate, Mondrian replaced the black grid that had long governed his canvases with predominantly yellow lines that intersect at points marked by squares of blue and red. These atomized bands of stuttering chromatic pulses, interrupted by light gray, create paths across the canvas suggesting the city's grid, the movement of traffic, and blinking electric lights, as well as the rhythms of jazz.
Monet's Water Lily paintings are based fundamentally on direct observation of nature. The artist frequently painted outdoors, drawing endless inspiration from the plants, trees, and pond at Giverny. The gardens on his property were the great extravagance of his final years; their upkeep required the services of six full-time gardeners. Monet planted agapanthus—a thin, wispy lily plant native to Africa—along the banks of his pond as well as several other types of indigenous and imported vegetation, such as wisteria, irises, and bamboo.
Monochrome abstraction—the use of one color over an entire canvas—has been a strategy adopted by many painters wishing to challenge expectations of what an image can and should represent. Klein likened monochrome painting to an "open window to freedom." He worked with a chemist to develop his own particular brand of blue. Made from pure color pigment and a binding medium, it is called International Klein Blue. Klein adopted this hue as a means of evoking the immateriality and boundlessness of his own particular utopian vision of the world.
Monsieur Horteloup, Paris. (Work dedicated to him by the artist)Monsieur Bernard Laffaille, Neuilly. Purchased from the heirs of Mr. HorteloupRoland, Browse & Delbanco, London (gallery). Purchased from Laffaille, summer 1963The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Purchased from Roland, Browse & Delbanco, January 1964
Moondog is formed out of geometric modules—a combination of tetrahedrons and elongated octahedrons, joined through their facing planes. Rare in the natural environment, regular geometries are commonly taken as signs of human reason, but they do exist in nature, as Smith well knew; he studied the growth of crystals, and once based an architectural design on the hexagons of the honeycomb. Rational as his structures are, they follow organic principles. Like the Minimalist artists who emerged alongside him in the early 1960s, Smith favored geometric shapes and impersonal surfaces, and was alert to the artwork's exchange with the space around it; but he was actually a contemporary of the Abstract Expressionists, and unlike the Minimalists he worked intuitively. "All my sculpture," he said, "is on the edge of dreams."Despite its self-evident logic, Moondog tricks the eye. Symmetrical and upright from some angles, from others it leans to one side, and its interlocking planar patterns seem to twist and shift as the viewer moves. The form was inspired by a photograph of a little jade house, and Smith interpreted it variously as a human pelvis and a Korean garden lantern. The title came from Joan Miró's painting Dog Barking at the Moon (1926) and from the New York street poet "Moondog," who wore a Viking-like helmet that reminded Smith of the sculpture.
More than three thousand Bell-47D1 helicopters were made in the United States and sold in forty countries between 1946 and 1973, when production ceased. While the Bell-47D1 is a straightforward utilitarian craft, its designer, Young, who was also a poet and a painter, consciously juxtaposed its transparent plastic bubble with the open structure of its tail boom to create an object whose delicate beauty is in-separable from its efficiency. That the plastic bubble is made in one piece rather than in sections joined by metal seams sets the Bell-47D1 apart from other helicopters. The result is a cleaner, more unified appearance.The bubble also lends an insectlike appearance to the hovering craft, which generated its nickname, the "bug-eyed helicopter." It seems fitting, then, that one of the principal uses of the Bell-47D1 has been for pest control in crop dusting and spraying. It has also been used for traffic surveillance and for the delivery of mail and cargo to remote areas. During the Korean War, it served as an aerial ambulance.Awarded the world's first commercial helicopter license by the Civil Aeronautics Administration (now the FAA), the Bell-47D1 weighs 1,380 pounds. Its maximum speed is 92 miles per hour and its maximum range 194 miles. It can hover like a dragonfly at altitudes up to 10,000 feet.
Morris helped to define the principles of Minimalism with his art and writings, but by the late 1960s he had tempered its often severe, geometrical appearance with softer, organic materials, thus becoming a founder of what is known as Post–Minimalism, too.  Felt, copper tubing, asphalt, steel cable, lead, and double-sided mirrors punctuate this amorphous mass of thread waste, remnants from textile manufacturing.  Morris deliberately relinquished much of his artistic control to the materials themselves, writing, "Chance is accepted and indeterminacy is implied."
Morris spent his childhood in Nebraska, and this photographs focus on a small farmhouse, a common local structure, suggests that he prized the visible traces of rural life in that landscape. Framed by vast planes of snow and sky, the structure sits alone. Despite the stillness of the scene, Morris embraced a connection to humanity: "It is my feeling that the absence of people in these photographs enhances their presence in the objects—the structures, the artifacts, even the landscape suggests its appropriate inhabitant," the artist wrote in 1975. "This nonpersonal but commonly shared impression, giving rise to our larger sense of shared experience, is what I find and value in these salvaged fragments of the American past."
Most New Yorkers and millions of tourists rely on the subway system to navigate the city. Help Point Intercoms, currently installed at the 23rd Street and Brooklyn Bridge–City Hall subway stations along the Lexington Avenue line, aid in relaying travel and emergency information. The integrated microphone and speaker provide direct contact with security personnel twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week, and the compact design is resistant to vandalism and breakage. A blue light identifies the device, providing a sense of safety and security in a manner that is not obtrusive during everyday activities but is recognizable in an emergency.
Most photographs in the press are consumed at a glance. A few become lasting symbols of famous events. In between lies Demand's raw material: images that might once have seemed to mean a lot, although we cannot quite remember why. Omitting the figures (if any), Demand remakes these scenes in crisp and colorful life-sized constructions of paper and cardboard. Photographing his elegant handiwork, he renders the original image with an uncanny clarity it never before possessed. Poll applies this strategy to the bizarre flashpoint of the 2000 election for president of the United States: the site at which Florida's contested paper ballots were assembled for intense scrutiny. At once artificial and vivid, Demand's image explains the scene no better than the photograph on which it is based. But perhaps it is less likely to be forgotten.
Mr. and Mrs. Heinz Schultz, New York. Purchased from the artist, 1941Buchholz Gallery (Curt Valentin), New York. [Acquired from Schultz, 1942]The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Purchased from Buchholz Gallery with Mrs. Simon Guggenheim Fund, 1942
Mr. and Mrs. Leopold Stokowski, Philadelphia. Acquired from the artist in Dessau, June 1931Mrs. Evangeline Zalstem Zalessky (formerly Mrs. Stokowski, until 1938), New York and New Milford, Connecticut. By 1945, still by 1958Robert C. Osborne Gallery, New YorkMeshulam Riklis, New York / McCrory Corporation. Acquired in ? – 1983The Museum of Modern Art, New York. The Riklis Collection of McCrory Corporation, 1983
Mr. and Mrs. Samuel A. Marx, Chicago; then Florene May Schoenborn (Samuel A. Marx's widow, later Mrs. Wolfgang Schoenborn, 1903-1995). 1950 - 1996The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Florene May Schoenborn Bequest, 1996
Mr. DOB, the whimsical, sharp-toothed character riding the wave at center, is Murakami's first signature creation inspired by the anime (animated film) and manga (comic book) characters that have achieved cult status in Japanese youth culture. His name is a contraction of the Japanese slang expression "dobojite," or "why?" and it is literally spelled out in his facial features and appendages, ensuring we recognize him in spite of his ever-changing appearance. Here Mr. DOB is borne on a tide of traditional Japanese forms. The wave, spanning the length of three panels that evoke a painted folding screen, is strongly suggestive of the well-known woodblock prints of the Japanese artist Hokusai (1760–1849). About twenty layers of paint, resembling lacquer, were built up then scraped away to create a variegated abstract background in Nihonga style, a fusion of Japanese and Western artistic approaches that developed in the late nineteenth century. Of 727 Murakami has said, "The work is not particularly representative of anything. It is simply a combination of all the available techniques that I had at the time."With studios and teams of assistants in Tokyo and New York producing his paintings, sculptures, environmental installations, prints, multiples, drawings, media works, and popular merchandise, Murakami has drawn comparisons with Andy Warhol. His expert melding of the popular with the time-honored has resulted in this humorous and celebratory representation of the past, present, and future of Japanese art.
Much of Gonzalez-Torres's work addresses personal and political dimensions of the AIDS crisis, which hit the arts community in New York City with particular ferocity. The title of this work may refer both to the United States Supreme Court's 1986 decision upholding the right of states to criminalize homosexual acts and to the political power of the Moral Majority, a Christian-right organization active in the USA in the 1980s. Here, Gonzalez-Torres plays with the austere formal language of Minimalism, transforming a commonplace material—paper, curled into sharply pointed cones—into an arrangement that suggests both fragility and menace.
Much of painter Édouard Vuillard's work was focused on the depiction of contemporary domestic scenes. His mother, widowed when the artist was still a young boy, worked as a textile designer and dressmaker to support her family, and Vuillard, who lived with her until her death in 1928, was deeply influenced by his experiences of family life. Often described as an "intimist," he frequently used his mother and sister as models, depicting them in household surroundings of patterned wallpaper and fabrics. Like many other Nabi artists, Vuillard was inspired by Japanese ukiyo-e prints to elevate quotidian scenes as suitable motifs for art. His Parisian interpretation of this concept is visible throughout the 1899 portfolio Landscapes and Interiors, of which The Cook is one example. This group of lithographs, widely considered to be Vuillard's most important print project, was published by Ambroise Vollard, a central figure in the print revival of the 1890s. In all, the artist made approximately seventy printed compositions over the course of his career.   Vuillard engaged in many aspects of the cultural life of Paris and, as a Nabi, sought to intertwine his artistic projects with the realms of theater, literature, and music. In addition to designing sets for plays by Henrik Ibsen and August Strindberg, he created posters and theater programs, formats which demonstrate the ways in which printed art extended beyond the traditional realm of the art collector at this time. The program shown here includes scenes in Vuillard's typical style, so flattened and heavily patterned as to nearly obscure the subject. Originally folded to form a cover, this sheet represents a scene from the play on the right, and an advertisement for La Revue blanche, a literary and art journal, on the left.
Muniz ingeniously probes the nature and traditions of picture-making by using unlikely materials to create images that ultimately take the form of photographs. The final work reveals just how the trick was done, but the illusion is seductive nevertheless. Muniz's series Pictures of Junk is based on Old Master paintings of the gods and heroes of classical mythology. In this picture, modeled on a famous painting by Caravaggio (c. 1597), the Greek hero Narcissus gazes at his reflection in a pool of water. Absorbed by his own beauty, he is an exemplar of vanity.The image, assembled on the floor of a hangar the size of a basketball court on the outskirts of Rio de Janeiro, is composed of industrial rubble such as nuts, bolts, bottle caps, soda cans, discarded tires, wheelbarrows, rusty signs, car doors, and scrap metal. Muniz directed his assistants—art students from impoverished neighborhoods nearby—from a platform forty feet above the ground. This whimsical translation of a venerable image into improbable materials is even more complicated than it first seems. Because the camera was pointed downward at a slightly oblique angle, the junk at the top of the picture is farther away from the viewer than the junk at the bottom. Consequently, viewers must take into account a disorienting discrepancy of scale.
Musée-Museum is part of Broodthaers's Museum of Modern Art, Department of Eagles, the fictional museum he developed between 1968 and 1972. Part parody and part protest against what he saw as the inadequacies and problematic nationalism of art institutions at the time, Broodthaers's museum featured no permanent collection or location but instead took shape as twelve "sections" (including a Figures Section and Cinema Section) realized through a series of installations planned by the artist. Here, Section of the Nineteenth Century—in which shipping crates and postcards stand in for original artworks—is represented through floor plans. This print was made in one hundred impressions and in two variants. The first (numbers one to sixty) features three color-postcard additions picturing works by nineteenth-century French painters Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres and Gustave Courbet; the second (numbers sixty-one to one hundred) includes two postcards showing works by Ingres only.
Museum Behnhaus, Lübeck; removed as "degenerate art" by the Reich Ministry for Public Enlightenment and Propaganda, Berlin, 1937 [1], on consignment to Karl Buchholz, Berlin; to Buchholz Gallery (Curt Valentin), New York, 1939; sold to Erich Cohn, New York [2]; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1939 (Gift of Erich Cohn).[1] Not on "Harry Fischer list."[2] Collection files 2.1939, Department of Drawings, The Museum of Modern Art, New York.
Museum Folkwang Essen; removed as "degenerate art" by the Reich Ministry for Public Enlightenment and Propaganda, Berlin, 1937 [1]; on consignment to Karl Buchholz, Berlin; to Buchholz Gallery (Curt Valentin), New York; acquired by The Museum of Modern  Art, New York, 1941.[1] EK no. 4554: Grotesken
Museum für Kunst und Heimatgeschichte, Erfurt [1]; removed as "degenerate art" by the Reich Ministry for Public Enlightenment and Propaganda, 1937 [2]; on consignment to Karl Buchholz (1901 1992), Berlin, 1939; to Curt Valentin (1902 1954), New York, 1939. Nelson A. Rockefeller, New York, 1939 [3]; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1979 (Nelson A. Rockefeller Bequest).[1] Painted on bottom of base "2 Erfurt."[2] EK no. 1942: Sitzende[3] Lender to the exhibition Art in Our Time, The Museum of Modern Art, New York, May 10  September 30, 1939 (no. 269).
Museum für Kunst und Kunstgewerbe, Stettin [1]; removed as “degenerate art” by the Reich Ministry for Public Enlightenment and Propaganda, 1937 [2]; on consignment to Karl Buchholz, Berlin; to Buchholz Gallery (Curt Valentin), New York; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1949.[1] Collection stamp "MUSEUM STETTIN" on verso.[2] EK no. 7777: Bildnis Hasenklever
My Vows brings together hundreds of photographs that each present a small part of a human body: mouth, ear, foot, nose, genitals, hand, breast, and so on. Each hangs from a string, joining and partly obscuring others. Together they make a dense circle whose diameter is barely greater than the height or arm span of a tall person. The individual elements—male and female, old and young, seductive and repellent—form a whole that is greater than the sum of its parts. Physical, psychological, and sexual identities commingle in an inexhaustible variety of unpredictable relationships, which together threaten to overwhelm the stable patterns of our familiar arrangements.
Named for a mischievous supernatural creature in Japanese folklore, Tengu reacts to sounds with its eyes and mouth, singing along to music or speaking in response to speech. Powered via a computer's USB port, he requires no care from his owner, but he reacts when attention is paid to him.
Nathan B. Spingold (1886-1958) and Frances Spingold, New York, by 1956 [1]; gift to The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1958. [1] Meeting of the Policy Committee for the Museum's Permanent Collection of Masterworks, November 30, 1956, Collectors Records no. 87 (Nate and Frances Spingold), MoMA Archives, New York. Included in the exhibition The Struggle for New Form: Loan exhibition for the benefit of Just One Break, Inc., World House Galleries, New York. January 22-February 23, 1957 (cat. no. 89). Lender: "Mr. and Mrs. Nate B. Spingold."
Nauman's work is based on experience of the self, conveyed by body and language. To make this untitled drawing–sculpture, he cut up sheets of paper and taped them together, constructing a work close to human scale. It is composed of drawn hands cropped at the wrists performing an easily legible sexual gesture. Unlike Nauman's flashing neon–sign works with the same motif, the movement in this work is frozen, activating and frustrating the viewer's voyeuristic position.
Neoconcrete Relief is simultaneously a painting and an object that questions the identity and function of both: a three–dimensional plane, whose presence in the exhibition space implies a physical encounter between the viewer and the work. The artist wrote, "The wall here serves not as a background but as an extraneous, unlimited space, though necessary to the vision of the work." It belongs to a group of paintings that Oiticica conceived as manifestos for a break with the traditional rectangular picture plane. Limited to two colors on wood, it is a nonrepresentational work in which the plane functions actively, rather than as a support for figures or colors.
Neuenschwander tackles the politics of Walt Disney by dismantling a historic edition of the popular Brazilian comic book Zé Carioca, created in 1941 when the animator visited South America to support American relations with the region during World War II. The main character, Zé Carioca, a soccer–playing green parrot whose name loosely translates as "Joe from Rio," is a stand–in for the Brazilian everyman. Having grown up with cartoons, Neuenschwander recalls that Zé Carioca acted in stories with nationalistic overtones. "His character was based on a stereotypical cliché of the Brazilian," she says, "or more precisely, the Carioca (someone born in Rio de Janeiro): street–smart, lazy, a lover of soccer and samba, a flirt and a swindler. The cliché of the cliché, he ended up helping to crystallize the national image of the malandro (rascal)." She confronts the implicit political and racial undertones by overpainting the figures in bright monochrome colors and whiting out the text. By turning each page into an abstraction the artist offers viewers a clean slate to imagine their own stories and dialogues.
Newman proclaimed Onement, I to be his artistic breakthrough, giving the work an importance belied by its modest size. This is the first time the artist used a vertical band to define the spatial structure of his work. This band, later dubbed a "zip," became Newman's signature mark. The artist applied the light cadmium red zip atop a strip of masking tape with a palette knife. This thick, irregular band on the smooth field of Indian Red simultaneously divides and unites the composition.
New York–based artist John Duff works primarily in sculptural relief, and his wall sculptures require a unique casting process. For Reciprocating Wedge, the artist constructed a hollow mold out of plywood, painted the inside of the mold with orange paint, and then filled it with the mixture of fiberglass and resin that would become the sculpture. The paint inside the mold gave the sculpture its orange color, and the bits of natural wood are pieces of the mold that stuck to the resin during the casting process.
Nicknamed Snow White's Coffin on account of its white metal casing and transparent lid, this product has an elemental look that redefined the typology of domestic audio equipment. The detailed consideration of such compact, simple designs secured Braun's success in the postwar consumer electronics market and became a model for their many competitors.
Nicolai selected the colors for this project from the thousands of hues standardized by Pantone, an international company that specializes in color and whose products are widely used in the fields of art and design. He is fascinated by the effects standardization has had on artistic practice and by functional applications of color in everyday life. Nicolai encourages the owners of this print project to devise their own patterns for installation.
Nitsch was one of the Actionist artists of Vienna, a loose 1960s group that staged transgressive performances in defiance of social mores. His goal in the series of events he titled Orgien Mysterien [O.M.] Theatre (Orgies-mysteries theatre) was an overwhelming drama of the senses, a gory bacchanalia. This sheet, for example, was covered with pig's blood before being printed with a rendering of the imagined theater.
Noland uses found objects in such a way that each retains its distinct identity and space. Metal poles, wire racks, leather straps from billy clubs, a pirate flag juxtaposed with an American flag, and a blind man's cane are assembled in The American Trip. These items are taken from life and point to the underbelly of the American psyche by creating counterpoint and tension through their juxtaposition. "I came from Washington DC, a city of facade," Noland says. "What's behind it? We're two-faced! I'm trying to break the facade—mix things up."
No swashbuckling hero, McCarthy's pirate is an intimidating and wretched figure who embodies a lifestyle of danger and licentiousness on the margins of society. McCarthy transforms the body of the ship into the body of the pirate: the ribs of the ship become his ribs, windows and holes become bodily orifices, oars act as limbs, and cannons resemble penises and a nose. The phallic weaponry alludes to warfare and sexual conquest, and the various inscriptions and red spurts make clear that if amputated, the pirate would lose his power. McCarthy critiques Western stereotypes of masculinity by transforming the iconic figure of the pirate through brutal images of debauchery and castration.
Notepad is an act of protest and commemoration disguised as a stack of ordinary yellow legal pads. Each ruled line, when magnified, is revealed to be microprinted text enumerating the full names, dates, and locations of each Iraqi civilian death on record over the first three years of the Iraq War. The designers imagine each printed edition of one hundred notepads, meant to be covertly distributed to United States representatives and senators, as a sort of Trojan horse, injecting transgressive data straight into the halls of power and eventually filed and memorialized in official archives. SWAMP is now working on an edition that takes into account the American incursion into Afghanistan; with the disclosure of confidential information by WikiLeaks, the designers plan to continue updating the project.
Notice in this picture the way that the heel of the woman's right shoe meets the shadow of the toe of her left shoe, which itself barely touches the left edge of the image. It is a beautiful pictorial design, as satisfying to contemplate as it would have been difficult to predict. Recognizing and enjoying it does not keep us, the viewers, from sharing in the fun of the couple on Coronado Beach, or from wondering what became of them and their friend with the camera, who appears as a shadow in the foreground. Indeed, the special pleasure of the picture is that it gives us both things at once: the exuberant couple, who were there on the beach, and the design, which came into existence only when the photograph was made.The picture is a snapshot, and it is unlikely that the untutored photographer who made it sought, or expected, the remarkable result or would have been able to repeat it. Nevertheless, exquisite accidents of this sort have played an important role in the evolution of the art of photography, by teaching ambitious photographers to appreciate and anticipate them.
"No work of art was ever made without a process," Close has said, and Robert/104,072 was made by a painstaking process indeed: it is composed of tiny black dots, each set inside a single square of a 104,072-square grid. The sense of shape and texture—of the distinction between metal and skin, between knitted sweater and bushy mustache—depends on the density of the paint, which Close applied with a spray gun, revisiting each square an average of ten times. Not surprisingly, the work took fourteen months to make.When Close began to paint portraits, in 1967-68, figurative painting was widely considered exhausted. The figures in Pop art were coolly ironic; and other artists were painting abstractions, or were abandoning painting altogether for more conceptual systems of art-making. Close preferred to apply a conceptual system to a traditional mode of painting. The aggressive scale makes the system clear—close up, the gridded dots in Robert/104,072 are quite apparent—and the black-and-white palette reflects the image's source in a photograph. Robert/104,072 announces itself as less illusion than code. For Close, a picture like this one is not "a painting of a person as much as it is the distribution of paint on a flat surface. . . . You really have to understand the artificiality of what you are doing to make the reality."
Nozkowski has made this comment about his approach to abstraction: "My work is 'abstracted' from reality, I suppose, in that each painting has an exact and specific source in the physical world. One of the reasons I do this is to find extraordinary formal devices—colors, shapes, compositions—which I would not have discovered with a strictly formal way of painting."
OCR stands for "optical character recognition," a technology that converts  printed information into workable electronic data by scanning and identifying individual numbers and letters. This font was designed to be perfectly readable by computers; each character is shaped to reflect the precise format set by the United States Bureau of Standards. Originally, OCR-A was used mostly by banks, credit card companies, and other businesses that process large amounts of printed data by machine. Lately, however, because of its retro-tech look, OCR-A has become a popular choice among graphic designers.
Odenbach's upbringing in postwar Germany was inextricably linked with the country's sociopolitical history, a heritage he addresses in his compositions through the bits of text and images culled from a variety of mass–media sources that often fade into the background of the larger drawings. You Can't See the Forest for the Trees plays on a common expression and is a plea to not only see this particular forest as a forest but also take into account its context: the largest Nazi concentration camp, Auschwitz–Birkenau, was named after the many birch trees surrounding the complex.
Odessa, Ukraine is one of twenty photographs of adolescents and teenagers Dijkstra made between 1992 and 1998 on beaches in Belgium, Croatia, England, Poland, Ukraine, and the United States. Each of these portraits shows the full length of the figure standing in relief against a backdrop of sand, water, and sky. The simplicity of the pictures initially seems to deny the complexity of the content, but in fact it ultimately enhances it. While we first see each person as a shape and the pictures as interchangeable, we quickly become alert to the particulars of a subject's posture, dress, economic status, and psychological state. In this picture the subject's gawkiness is clearly the result of his effort to present his boyish body with the confidence of an adult.An exceptional range of vulnerability characterizes the portraits and becomes the subject of the series. This repetition of vulnerability from figure to figure creates a kind of abstraction that simultaneously describes the state of the individual and a universal human condition. In all Dijkstra's portraits, which include mothers who have just given birth and matadors who have just left the bullring, she captures people during moments of transition, when their heightened emotional or psychological states precipitate a change in their characters.
Odilon Redon, an individualist who believed in the superiority of the imagination over observation of nature, rejected the Realism and Impressionism of his contemporaries in favor of a more personal artistic vision. After a discouraging experience studying academic painting in Paris, he returned to his hometown of Bordeaux, where he began making etchings in 1864. Later, returning to Paris, he was encouraged by a fellow artist to try lithography and was introduced to Lemercier, a renowned Parisian workshop. He soon discovered that the unique qualities of this technique enabled him to achieve infinite gradations of tone, fine-line drawing, and rich depictions of light and dark. Also, through the possibility of editioning, he found a vehicle for broadly distributing the intimate imagery of his drawings. During his lifetime, Redon made close to thirty etchings and two hundred lithographs, working almost exclusively in black and white. His reputation flourished, due, in part, to the availability of his prints. He became a celebrated figure in fin-de-siècle Paris, greatly admired by artists and writers of the Symbolist movement with whom he shared an enthusiasm for the fantastic, mystical, and sublime forces found beneath the surface of everyday life. Using nature as his starting point, Redon imagined new worlds through his enigmatic creations, such as The Eye Like a Strange Balloon Mounts Toward Infinity.The majority of Redon's lithographs are found in albums based on thematic or literary subjects. He was greatly inspired by such authors as Edgar Allan Poe and Gustave Flaubert, whose unusual sensibilities were well suited to the artist's own. Redon was so moved by Flaubert's 1874 prose poem The Temptation of Saint Anthony that he created three separate projects based on it.
Oehlen uses abstract compositions to investigate his position within the sociopolitical context of Germany; he has played in various punk bands, and references to music are frequent in his paintings and drawings. In this series the artist uses a strict set of three colors in abstract compositions reminiscent of the early–twentieth century drawings of Russian artist Vasily Kandinsky. As such, Oehlen simultaneously mocks art–historical convention and belies the description Neo–Expressionist, which was used to describe his generation of artists and their subjective and carefree painting style.
Of all the artists who have emerged over the past fifteen years from the now-legendary California Conceptualist movement, Kelley has had the most profound impact on American art—with his scatological performance pieces, prolific writing, and large-scale installations featuring the abject souvenirs of middle-class adolescence (from dirty stuffed animals to crocheted couch throws). In Kelley's multimedia work, high and low are combined to create a kind of détente between the academic and the everyday. In this world old toys and groups of drawings executed in the style of mid-1950s comic books are marshaled together to examine the most intricate metaphysical problems.This large drawing is from a group of ten works that explore a perennial artistic conundrum: truth versus illusion. Having rendered the interior of a cave in a style that recalls comic illustration and film, Kelley asks the viewer to enter into his illusion: in its original installation, the drawing, which drips with curiously scatological stalactites and stalagmites, was hung close to the floor, directly above and partially blocking a small entryway. Viewers were forced to crouch down and slide beneath it, strengthening the work's comparison of art viewing to cave exploration and making manifest the words that appear in the drawing itself: "When spelunking, sometimes you have to stoop . . . Sometimes you have to go on all fours . . . Sometimes even crawl. . . . Crawl worm!!"
Of her politically charged paintings and drawings, the British-born artist Sue Coe has said, "My dream is that people don't discuss the work, but discuss the content." Coe, who has created editorial cartoons for the op-ed page of The New York Times, has addressed in her artwork such subjects as racism, sexism, and the mistreatment of children. The painting Peoples Republic is part of a series of works published in Coe's 1983 book, How to Commit Suicide in South Africa. The title of the book refers to the many people murdered while in police custody in apartheid-ruled South Africa; by raising awareness about the country's oppressive regime, the artist hoped to curb American financial interests there.
Ofili here employs African–inspired motifs, glitter, collaged cutouts from popular magazines, and, most notoriously, elephant dung. The latter material has associations for him with African tribal culture, but its unusual use in his paintings has proven an affront to some, particularly in works that confront racial and religious stereotypes. Such notoriety might have obscured Ofili's primary involvement with hip–hop culture as a resource for his art at this time. He has stated, "I'm trying to make paintings that make you hear them, rather than see them."
Of Los tres grandes (The Big Three) Mexican muralists, Siqueiros was the youngest and the most politically radical. His artistic career was repeatedly interrupted by his fervent political activity and frequent imprisonment. He fought in the revolutionary army during the Mexican Revolution (1910–20), in the 1920s he organized a mineworkers union, in late 1936 he joined the republicans to fight against fascist forces in the Spanish Civil War (1936–39), and as an ardent Stalinist he helped orchestrate the unsuccessful assassination of Leon Trotsky in 1940.Siqueiros was passionately committed to technical innovation. He believed that revolutionary art called for revolutionary techniques and materials and considered the paintbrush "an implement of hair and wood in an age of steel." Collective Suicide offers a compendium of the radical techniques the artist explored as part of the Siqueiros Experimental Workshop he founded in New York in 1936. He airbrushed paint across the top third of the panel and used stencils to depict the vast army of invading seventeenth-century Spanish conquistadors on horseback (lower right) and Chichimec Indians leaping to their deaths to avoid subjugation (left). The swirling vortexes are pools of fast-drying commercial lacquer typically used on cars. A member of the workshop later recalled that they applied this paint "in thin glazes or built it up into thick gobs. We poured it, dripped it, splattered it, and hurled it at the picture surface." Siqueiros's radical experiments proved influential for Abstract Expressionist artist Jackson Pollock, in particular, who was a member of the Workshop.
Often associated with the Pop art movement, Jim Dine features everyday objects and imagery in his paintings, drawings, and prints. However, unlike many Pop artists, he focuses on the autobiographical and emotive connotations of his motifs. In the late 1950s and early 1960s, he worked with Claes Oldenburg and Allan Kaprow to organize proto-performance art events known as Happenings. Soon after, drawing on childhood memories of his father's Cincinnati hardware store, Dine began making paintings incorporating real objects like hammers, C-clamps, and paintbrushes. For Dine, these objects functioned "as a vocabulary of feelings." An accomplished printmaker, Dine has created almost nine hundred prints to date, many of which have appeared in some twenty illustrated books. Since completing his first prints in 1960 at Pratt Graphic Art Center, he has mastered a wide range of lithographic, intaglio, and woodcut techniques. Dine was among a group of artists whom Tatyana Grosman invited to her legendary printshop, Universal Limited Art Editions, in the early years. He went on to work with many other printers and publishers, including Petersburg Press, Aldo Crommelynck, and Pace Editions. During the 1970s, Dine turned to his wife for new sources of personal iconography. In Braid, with its network of finely etched lines, he transformed her disembodied braid to stand in as her symbolic representation. An early experiment with woodcut technique, The Woodcut Bathrobe illustrates the enduring importance of the bathrobe motif in Dine's work. He first adopted this humble but self-assured motif in 1964 as a metaphor for his self-portrait, after coming across an image of a man's dressing gown in a newspaper advertisement. Dine has used the motif in over seventy printed works.
Often associated with the Pop art movement, Jim Dine features everyday objects and imagery in his paintings, drawings, and prints. However, unlike many Pop artists, he focuses on the autobiographical and emotive connotations of his motifs. In the late 1950s and early 1960s, he worked with Claes Oldenburg and Allan Kaprow to organize proto-performance art events known as Happenings. Soon after, drawing on childhood memories of his father's Cincinnati hardware store, Dine began making paintings incorporating real objects like hammers, C-clamps, and paintbrushes. For Dine, these objects functioned "as a vocabulary of feelings." An accomplished printmaker, Dine has created almost nine hundred prints to date, many of which have appeared in some twenty illustrated books. Since completing his first prints in 1960 at Pratt Graphic Art Center, he has mastered a wide range of lithographic, intaglio, and woodcut techniques. Dine was among a group of artists whom Tatyana Grosman invited to her legendary printshop, Universal Limited Art Editions, in the early years. He went on to work with many other printers and publishers, including Petersburg Press, Aldo Crommelynck, and Pace Editions. During the 1970s, Dine turned to his wife for new sources of personal iconography. In Braid, with its network of finely etched lines, he transformed her disembodied braid to stand in as her symbolic representation.An early experiment with woodcut technique, The Woodcut Bathrobe illustrates the enduring importance of the bathrobe motif in Dine's work. He first adopted this humble but self-assured motif in 1964 as a metaphor for his self-portrait, after coming across an image of a man's dressing gown in a newspaper advertisement. Dine has used the motif in over seventy printed works.
Of the genesis of her paintings, Martin said, "When I first made a grid I happened to be thinking of the innocence of trees and then this grid came into my mind and I thought it represented innocence, and I still do, and so I painted it and then I was satisfied. I thought, this is my vision." Martin rendered fine vertical lines and lightly shaded horizontal bands in oil and pencil, softening the geometric grid, which in this case seems to expand beyond the confines of the canvas. For Martin the grid evoked not a human measure but an ethereal one—the boundless order or transcendent reality associated with Eastern philosophies.
On consignment from the artist to Galerie Alfred Flechtheim, Berlin, 1929 [1]; on loan to The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1930 [2]; sold through J.B. Neumann, New York to James Thrall Soby (1906-1979), Hartford/New York/New Canaan, August 10, 1932 [3]; given to The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1969.[1] Paul-Klee-Stiftung, Kunstmuseum Bern, eds. Paul Klee: catalogue raisonné. Bern: Benteli and New York: Thames and Hudson, vol. 5 (2001), no. 4754. Included in the exhibition Paul Klee, Galerie Alfred Flechtheim, Berlin, October 20-November 15, 1929 (no. 96).[2] Included in the exhibition Paul Klee, The Museum of Modern Art, New York, March 13-April 2, 1930 (no. 40). The catalogue notes on p. 13: "Unless otherwise indicated the paintings belong to the artist and are exhibited by arrangement with his representatives [Galerie Alfred Flechtheim, Berlin and J.B. Neumann, New York]."[3] Collection files, Department of Painting and Sculpture, The Museum of Modern Art, New York.
On consignment from the artist to Galerie Alfred Flechtheim, Berlin, 1930 [1]; on loan to The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1930 [2]; sold through J. B. Neumann, New York to Sidney Janis (1896-1989), New York, 1930 [3]; given to The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1967.[1] Paul-Klee-Stiftung, Kunstmuseum Bern, eds. Paul Klee: catalogue raisonné. Bern: Benteli and New York: Thames and Hudson, vol. 5 (2001), no. 5134. [2] Included in the exhibition Paul Klee, The Museum of Modern Art, New York, March 13-April 2, 1930 (no. 61). The catalogue notes on p. 13: "Unless otherwise indicated the paintings belong to the artist and are exhibited by arrangement with his representatives [Galerie Alfred Flechtheim, Berlin and J.B. Neumann, New York]."[3] The Sidney and Harriet Janis Collection, The Museum of Modern Art, New York, January 17-March 4, 1968, p. 17: "Acquired from Galerie Alfred Flechtheim, Berlin, through J.B. Neumann, 1930."
On consignment from the artist to Galerie Alfred Flechtheim, Berlin, 1931 [1]; to Daniel-Henry Kahnweiler (Galerie Simon), Paris [2]; acquired by J.B. Neumann, New York, by 1934 [3]; gift to The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1939. [1] Paul-Klee-Stiftung, Kunstmuseum Bern, eds. Paul Klee: catalogue raisonné. Bern: Benteli and New York: Thames and Hudson, vol. 5 (2001), no. 5365. Included in the exhibition Paul Klee: Neue Bilder und Aquarelle, Galerie Alfred Flechtheim, Berlin, November 5–December 10, 1931 (no. 12).[2] Ibid. [3] Included in the exhibitions Paul Klee, Wadsworth Atheneum, Hartford, January 21-February 11, 1936 and Cubism and Abstract Art , The Museum of Modern Art, New York, March 2-April 19, 1936 and other venues.  Lender:  J.B. Neumann, New York.
On consignment from the artist to Rudolf Probst, Galerie Neue Kunst Fides, Dresden, 1928 [1]; on consignment from the artist to Galerie Alfred Flechtheim, Berlin, 1928 [2]; on loan to The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1930 [3]; on consignment from the artist to Alex Vömel, Düsseldorf, by 1934 [4]; to Mayor Gallery, London, by 1934 [5]; to Daniel-Henry Kahnweiler (Galerie Simon), Paris, by 1935 [6]; on loan to the Kunsthalle Basel, 1935 [7]; acquired by Karl Nierendorf, New York, by 1939 [8]; sold to Helen Resor (1886-1964), New York, by 1940 [9]; sold through Karl Nierendorf, New York to The Museum of Modern Art, 1945 (Abby Aldrich Rockefeller Fund and by exchange).[1] Paul-Klee-Stiftung, Kunstmuseum Bern, eds. Paul Klee: catalogue raisonné. Bern: Benteli and New York: Thames and Hudson, vol. 5 (2001), no. 4233.[2] Ibid. Included in the following exhibitions: Paul Klee, Galerie Flechtheim, Berlin, March 18-Easter 1928, no. 33 (Pastorale); Paul Klee, Galerie Flechtheim, Berlin, October 20-November 15, 1929 (no. 85); Paul Klee, Kunstverein für die Rheinlande und Westfalen, Düsseldorf in cooperation with Galerie Flechtheim, June 14-July 6, 1931 (no. 47).[3] Included in the exhibition Paul Klee, The Museum of Modern Art, New York, March 13-April 2, 1930 (no. 22). The catalogue notes on p. 13: "Unless otherwise indicated the paintings belong to the artist and are exhibited by arrangement with his representatives [Galerie Alfred Flechtheim, Berlin and J.B. Neumann, New York]." [4] Paul Klee: catalogue raisonné, vol. 5 (2001), no. 4233.[5] Ibid. Mayor Gallery label on verso. Included in the exhibition Paul Klee, The Mayor Gallery London, January 16-mid-February 1934 (no. 27). [6] Paul Klee: catalogue raisonné, vol. 5 (2001), no. 4233. [7] Offered for sale at the exhibition Paul Klee, Kunsthalle Basel, October 27-November 24, 1935 (no. 5). [8] Paul Klee: catalogue raisonné, vol. 5 (2001), no. 4233.[9] Paul Klee, The Museum of Modern Art, New York, June 30-July 27, 1941 (Lender: Helen Resor).
On consignment from the artist to Rudolf Probst, Galerie Neue Kunst Fides, Dresden, 1928 [1]; on consignment from the artist to Galerie Alfred Flechtheim, Berlin, February 1928 [2]; on loan to The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1930 [3]; sold through J. B. Neumann, New York to Sidney Janis (1896-1989), New York, 1931 [4]; given to The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1967.[1] Paul-Klee-Stiftung, Kunstmuseum Bern, eds. Paul Klee: catalogue raisonné. Bern: Benteli and New York: Thames and Hudson, vol. 4 (2000), no. 3624. [2] Ibid. See Stefan Frey and Wolfgang Kersten, "Paul Klees geschäftliche Verbindung zur Galerie Alfred Flechtheim," Alfred Flechtheim: Sammler. Kunsthändler. Verleger, ed.  by Hans Albert Peters, exh. cat. Kunstmuseum Düsseldorf, 1987, p. 79. Included in the exhibition Paul Klee, Galerie Alfred Flechtheim, Berlin, October 20-November 15, 1929 (no. 54: Schauspielermaske).[3] ] Included in the exhibition Paul Klee, The Museum of Modern Art, New York, March 13-April 2, 1930 (no. 12). The catalogue notes on p. 13: "Unless otherwise indicated the paintings belong to the artist and are exhibited by arrangement with his representatives [Galerie Alfred Flechtheim, Berlin and J.B. Neumann, New York]."[4] The Sidney and Harriet Janis Collection, The Museum of Modern Art, New York, January 17-March 4, 1968, p. 17.
One of Ensor's earliest fantastical paintings, this work recreates the familiar story of Saint Anthony battling a world of temptations (embodied by the woman at the far left). Ensor described his version of the narrative as one in which "the bizarre prevails" as Hell expels menacing sea creatures and grotesque monsters haphazardly joined together within a colorful, loosely rendered landscape. Inspired by earlier renditions of the story by Flemish artists Hieronymus Bosch (Netherlandish, 1453–1516) and Pieter Brueghel (Flemish, 1525–1569), Ensor brought a fresh interpretation to a familiar subject by combining invented figures with wild brushstrokes and audacious color choices. On the basis of this painting, Alfred H. Barr, Jr., the founding director of The Museum of Modern Art, described Ensor as possibly "the boldest living painter" in 1887.
One of four cartoons for tapestries commissioned by Marie Cuttoli, who, while she never owned the painting, kept it until 1946 [or until 1952]Aimé Maeght, Paris. Acquired from Marie Cuttoli, by 1952Nelson A. Rockefeller, New York. Acquired from Aimé Maeght by May 1955 [probably in 1952] - 1976The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift of Nelson A. Rockefeller, 1976
One of the first artists to appropriate television imagery, Dara Birnbaum dissects and recombines television's symbols and codes as a means of resisting its one-way address and encouraging active, critical viewing. PM Magazine is one of Birnbaum's earliest multi-channel installations. Responding to the marginalization of video artworks in museums and institutions at the time, the artist claimed a space for video by painting two freestanding walls with colors significant to television production of the 1980s: Chroma Key Blue and red, which was considered too vibrant for the broadcast of a stable signal. Four monitors are framed by an industrial Speed Rail support structure similar to hardware used in television production and trade shows. Manipulating and re-editing sequences from the television program PM Magazine and a Wang Laboratories computer commercial, Birnbaum draws on strategies from feminism and institutional critique to alter the meaning and fundamental syntax of mass-media imagery. Set to a post-punk cover of The Doors' "LA Woman," PM Magazine undermines popular culture's emphasis on consumption, leisure, and gender stereotypes.
One of the foremost woodcut and book artists since the 1940s, Antonio Frasconi is best known for combining realist and symbolic imagery to address political and social issues. His work also includes such subjects as bestiaries, lyrical landscapes, and illustrations for children's stories and other literary works. Fascinated by the political prints of Mexican artist José Guadalupe Posada, Frasconi began his seven-decade career as a satirical cartoonist. Raised in Uruguay, he has lived in the United States since 1945, when he received a scholarship from the Art Students League in New York. An admirer of German Expressionist and Japanese woodcuts, he did much to sustain interest in the medium at mid-century and, of the three thousand prints he has made, most were executed using this technique. For his books, numbering more than one hundred, Frasconi makes full use of page sequencing to create visual narratives into which he often incorporates fragments of text with fonts he has designed himself. An indefatigable craftsman, he does his own printing, but has also reproduced some books photomechanically so they can be distributed more broadly through inexpensive trade editions. Viet Nam! alternates woodcuts of war-torn victims with relief halftone prints of sleek B52 bombers, both based on newspaper photographs. The interleaving of white, red, black, and translucent papers, sometimes left blank or repeating previous pages, creates a cinematic rhythm. In Los Desaparecidos, Frasconi pays homage to citizens of Latin America who, because of their suspected dissent, "disappeared" during the period of military dictatorships there. Here he exploits the raw immediacy of wood grain and experiments with scale to achieve powerfully confrontational effects. Political themes, like those explored here, have been a passion for Frasconi. He even taught a course in the use of art as social statement during his long tenure as a professor at the State University of New York at Purchase.
One of the foremost woodcut and book artists since the 1940s, Antonio Frasconi is best known for combining realist and symbolic imagery to address political and social issues. His work also includes such subjects as bestiaries, lyrical landscapes, and illustrations for children's stories and other literary works. Fascinated by the political prints of Mexican artist JosT Guadalupe Posada, Frasconi began his seven-decade career as a satirical cartoonist. Raised in Uruguay, he has lived in the United States since 1945, when he received a scholarship from the Art Students League in New York. An admirer of German Expressionist and Japanese woodcuts, he did much to sustain interest in the medium at mid-century and, of the three thousand prints he has made, most were executed using this technique. For his books, numbering more than one hundred, Frasconi makes full use of page sequencing to create visual narratives into which he often incorporates fragments of text with fonts he has designed himself. An indefatigable craftsman, he does his own printing, but has also reproduced some books photomechanically so they can be distributed more broadly through inexpensive trade editions. Viet Nam! alternates woodcuts of war-torn victims with relief halftone prints of sleek B52 bombers, both based on newspaper photographs. The interleaving of white, red, black, and translucent papers, sometimes left blank or repeating previous pages, creates a cinematic rhythm. In Los Desaparecidos, Frasconi pays homage to citizens of Latin America who, because of their suspected dissent, "disappeared" during the period of military dictatorships there. Here he exploits the raw immediacy of wood grain and experiments with scale to achieve powerfully confrontational effects. Political themes, like those explored here, have been a passion for Frasconi. He even taught a course in the use of art as social statement during his long tenure as a professor at the State University of New York at Purchase.
On facing pages, two fantastical beings of Miró's imagination engage the viewer with dramatic gestures and bright colors. The whimsical abstract form on the right appears to reach out to the female figure at the left with the assertion, "Je n'ai jamais changé" ("I have never changed"). These words repeat the last line from a poem on the previous page.Á toute épreuve, a monumental project executed over more than a decade, consists of a series of lyrical poems that Éluard had written in the late 1920s, at the time that his wife, Gala, abandoned him for Salvador Dalí. This book about love and the Catalan region of Spain was a collaborative effort involving the artist Miró, the poet Éluard, and the Swiss publisher Cramer. All three had a hand in the imaginative layouts—which interlock text and images—and the choice of paper and typeface.Miró's woodcuts and collagraphs demonstrate the inventiveness of his printmaking. Instead of cutting into a block of wood to create the compositions, Miró arranged his designs—composed of "found" scraps of wood—on pieces of plywood. He also bent metal wires into linear elements and then glued these components to a plywood backing before printing. The results are some of the most exuberant graphic images ever created.Á toute épreuve by Paul Éluard. 1947-58
On June 7, 1905, four students of architecture, Ernst Ludwig Kirchner, Fritz Bleyl, Erich Heckel and Karl Schmidt-Rottluff founded the Brücke ("bridge") artists group in Dresden. They aspired to establish a new vision of art and culture based on the dissolution of the boundaries between art and life.Though the idealistic search for a new experimental aesthetic inspired their collaboration, the Brücke artists also chose to make prints to promote their work in a competitive art market. They designed a variety of printed matter to assert their identity, and used them to recruit "passive members"  art collectors and patrons  to support, sponsor and disseminate their work.This manifesto, the first written statement of the groups ideals, appealed to "a generation of those who create and take pleasure," and expressed the Brücke artists' desire for a "direct and genuine" approach to representation. The Jugendstil-inspired typography, including the ornamental initial and the artist's monogram "ELK," reveals Kirchner's training in the applied arts and crafts with Hugo Steiner–Prag in Munich. In the Brücke title vignette, which also shows a Jugendstil influence, a bridge is used to represent the group's aspiration to create a new community united by a shared creative consciousness and artistic imagination.Although, the Brücke artists used a slightly earlier, typeset version of the manifesto as a kind of handbill for potential buyers, this hand–carved version with the title vignette was intended as a special gift to their "passive members" they began to recruit in 1906.
On occasion, Reverón based his figure paintings on old narrative themes. Here, the allusion may be to the water–maidens of Hispanic folklore, traditionally depticted with shimmering, straw–colored bodies and golden hair. Reverón's nearly monochromatic "white" paintings represent the perceptual experience of forms dissolving into intense light. In the 1930s, working indoors, the artist began making such monochromes, with puzzling forms in shadowy interiors.
On the occasion of an exhibition of African Americans in early photography, Weems was invited by The J. Paul Getty Museum to comb through their photography collection. She selected nineteenth- and twentieth- century photographs of black men and women, from the time they were forced into slavery in the United States to the present, then rephotographed the pictures, enlarged them, and toned them in red. Each photograph is framed under a sheet of glass inscribed with a text written by the artist, evoking the layers of prejudice imposed on the depicted men and women. Weems's work offers a contemporary reading of this historical group of images.
Oppenheimer, who had begun signing works MOPP by 1911, was initially friendly with both Kokoschka and Schiele. But this poster, which he designed for his first Munich exhibition, brought accusations of plagiarism from Kokoschka, who found its subject—a gaunt, naked self-portrait figure bleeding from a chest wound—too close to his own agonized poster of a year earlier.
Oswald Mathias Ungers's unrealized proposal for student housing was done for a competition sponsored by the University of Technology, Twente, the Netherlands. The monumental Enschede dormitory at first appears to be designed in a traditional Beaux-Arts plan, incorporating classical circular and rectangular courtyards, on axis; but in fact the lower portion has been sliced open, shifted, and rotated. Such a permutation undermines the integrity of the perimeter, and fragments what appears to have been once a stable form. The viewer's sense of instability increases as the perspective in the drawing shifts at the point where the building complex pivots. During the time he conceived this project, Ungers was highly influenced by the Russian Constructivists" monumental and dynamic forms and by Giambattista Piranesi's sublime fragmented images.
Otto Hohlt (sculptor). Gift from the artist on the occasion of his wedding, 1920G. David Thompson, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. By 1960-61Paul Hänggi, Basel. 1961Galerie Beyeler, Basel. Purchase, 1963Ernst Schwitters, Lysaker, and Marlborough Fine Art Limited, London. Purchase, 1963 - 1968Marlborough-Gerson Gallery, New York. 1968The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift of Marlborough-Gerson Gallery, Inc., 1968
Our world is in our computers, portable media players, and wireless handheld devices; our data is stored on remote networks, creating digital archives of entire generations of people. What will happen to all of this information when we pass away? "Physical access keys to this data would become objects of remembrance," Gauler suggests. Digital Remains, a beautiful, personalized data-storage artifact equipped with a Bluetooth connection, allows users to log on to the digital remains of a loved one on their own digital devices. Search algorithms dig through the data, pulling out relevant personal traces, like a photograph from a holiday spent together or a favorite piece of music, evoking the presence of the deceased. "New technologies bring new ways of mourning," Gauler says.
Over the past forty years, David Hammons has produced sculptures, installations, prints, drawings, paintings, performances, and videos that, with a sense of the sacred and the humorous, investigate the intersection of art and daily life. Hammons' Holy Bible: Old Testament is a limited-edition artist's book that consists of a 1997 softcover edition of The Complete Works of Marcel Duchamp, by Arturo Schwartz, that has been rebound to resemble a Bible. As the originator of the "readymade"—a work of art made from an unaltered found object placed in an art context—Marcel Duchamp, perhaps more than any other artist, influenced the course of art-making over the past one hundred years. Here Hammons celebrates Duchamp's close-to-sacred status but is also gently critical of it: the book is bound as the Old Testament, leaving open the possibility of more recent artistic revelations.
Pablo Picasso, 1940 - summer 1957Samuel M. Kootz Gallery, Inc., New YorkMrs. Bertram Smith / Louise Reinhardt Smith, New York. Purchased from Samuel M. Kootz GalleryThe Museum of Modern Art, New York. Louise Reinhardt Smith Bequest, 1995
Painted after his nervous breakdown and subsequent release from the German army, George Grosz's Großstadt (Metropolis) presents the city as a place that is as hellish as the battlefield. Bathed in shades of fiery red, flame blue, and rich purple, buildings topple and streets buckle. Tilted on a diagonal, the composition conveys the social upheavals of wartime. Multiple perspectives merge to create a disorienting space and collapse distinctions between inside and outside. Grosz shows simultaneously a café's exterior signage and facade and its interior, which is reduced to a chair and table with bottles and an empty glass. Moral order has broken down as well. Grosz's zig-zag composition plots a tour through the city's debauchery. A properly dressed man lecherously eyes the naked body of an upside-down woman. Wearing little more than stockings and a shirt that bares her breasts, a streetwalker presses her hand into the crotch of a passing man. Grosz explored such potent combinations of sex, violence, and revolution throughout his career.
Painted in 1915, the year Italy entered World War I, this work reflects a Futurist declaration of the same year: "War is a motor for art." Although poor health prevented Severini from enlisting in the military, he was obsessed by this first fully mechanized war. Living in Paris, he witnessed the city's bombardment, and from his studio he had an aerial view of the Denfert-Rochereau station and trains transporting soldiers, supplies, and weapons. Here, five faceless figures crouch in a militarized locomotive car, aiming their rifles in unison. Smoke from gun and canon fire eclipse the natural landscape. Severini celebrated war, which the Futurists believed could generate a new Italian identity—one of military and cultural power.
Painted on the eve of America's entry into World War II, while Tamayo was living in New York, this pair of snarling dogs captures, in the words of fellow Mexican painter Juan Soriano, "that horror before a world that was turning to stone before our eyes." Set against an eerily vacant yellow backdrop bathed in a red glow, the dogs, with their fangs bared, strike an anxious note, while the pale-blue bones near their paws suggest death or carnage. The subject matter was likely inspired not only by contemporary events but by pre-Columbian terracotta burial sculptures. In Aztec and Maya mythology, dogs were considered guides to the underworld, and statues of them were often buried with members of the ruling class.
Painted the year after Chagall came to Paris, I and the Village evokes his memories of his native Hasidic community outside Vitebsk. In the village, peasants and animals lived side by side, in a mutual dependence here signified by the line from peasant to cow, connecting their eyes. The peasant's flowering sprig, symbolically a tree of life, is the reward of their partnership. For Hasids, animals were also humanity's link to the universe, and the painting's large circular forms suggest the orbiting sun, moon (in eclipse at the lower left), and earth.The geometries of I and the Village are inspired by the broken planes of Cubism, but Chagall's is a personalized version. As a boy he had loved geometry: "Lines, angles, triangles, squares," he would later recall, "carried me far away to enchanting horizons." Conversely, in Paris he used a disjunctive geometric structure to carry him back home. Where Cubism was mainly an art of urban avant-garde society, I and the Village is nostalgic and magical, a rural fairy tale: objects jumble together, scale shifts abruptly, and a woman and two houses, at the painting's top, stand upside-down. "For the Cubists," Chagall said, "a painting was a surface covered with forms in a certain order. For me a painting is a surface covered with representations of things . . . in which logic and illustration have no importance."
Painter, printmaker, and political activist, Leon Golub has been making art about the disparity between power and powerlessness since his earliest paintings in the 1940s. He evolved his expressive figural style through an extensive study of sources ranging from classical sculpture to illustrations in the popular press. In the 1970s he began communicating his universal themes by referencing specific events and contexts in series centered on political leaders, mercenaries, and victims of torture. His monumental unstretched canvases portray disturbing tableaux of evil and human vulnerability in a piercing critique of contemporary society. Golub has completed more than one hundred thirty prints since making his first lithographs in 1946 in his native Chicago. He works in lithography, screenprint, and etching and often explores his images through varying states and colors. He frequently employs photographic processes to generate an initial image, which he then manipulates, distorts, and reworks before printing. Golub has collaborated with a variety of workshops, including Tamarind Lithography Workshop in the mid-1960s and Rutgers Center for Innovative Print and Paper in New Brunswick, New Jersey, more recently. He also frequently self-publishes his prints. Golub's White Squad series depicts policemen in scenes of government-sponsored abuse. In this lithograph he reiterates images from two related paintings, dramatically juxtaposing them on a stark background in a shocking vision of terror. The abrupt cropping of the arm in the upper right, and Mannerist distortion of the looming head at the left, are typical of Golub's jarring compositional strategies. In addition, by turning the gaze of one of the abusers out of the picture frame, Golub implicates the viewer as a bystander in the horrifying event unfolding and intensifies the unsettling psychological impact of the composition.
Painting 1944-N is a powerful early example of Still's mature style. The surface is a black impasto, enlivened with knife marks. A jagged red line cuts high on the canvas, and is intersected by two vertical, irregular, pointed shapes before plunging downward to the bottom edge. The size of paintings like this one, its largely empty expanse, and the lightning-bolt quality of Still's line have led some to see in his work a vision of the broad spaces of the Western prairies, where he grew up. But he himself believed that such associations only diminished his work. Still commanded a new kind of abstraction, free from decipherable symbols. The tarry surface of Painting 1944-N concentrates attention on itself, denying the illusion of depth, and the intensely saturated hue carries emotional force without relying on associative imagery. More programmatically than any of the other Abstract Expressionists, Still consciously tried to erase any traces of modern European art from his painting, and to develop a new art appropriate to the New World. "Pigment on canvas," he believed, "has a way of initiating conventional reactions. . . . Behind these reactions is a body of history matured into dogma, authority, tradition. The totalitarian hegemony of this tradition I despise, its presumptions I reject."
"Painting is probably much more exciting than advertising," Rosenquist has said, "so why shouldn't it be done with that power and gusto, with that impact." Like other Pop artists, Rosenquist is fascinated by commercial and everyday images. He also understands the power of advertising's use of "things larger than life"—he once painted billboards for a living—and even in early abstractions he borrowed the exaggeratedly cheerful palette of the giant signs. His next step was to explore the artistic potential of the billboard's scale and photographic style.Rosenquist generally spikes that style with disorienting fractures and recombinations of images. F-111 becomes still more overwhelming through its particularly enormous size and panoramic shape: it is designed to fill the four walls of a room, engulfing and surrounding the viewer—unlike a billboard, which, despite its magnitude, can be viewed all at once. Also unlike a billboard, F-111 fuses pictures of American prosperity with a darker visual current. A diver's air bubbles are rhymed by a mushroom cloud; a smiling little girl sits under a missilelike hairdryer; a sea of spaghetti looks uncomfortably visceral; and weaving through and around all these images is the F-111 itself, a U.S. Air Force fighter-bomber. Painted during the Vietnam War, F-111 draws disturbing connections between militarism and the consumerist structure of the American economy. F-111. 1964-65
Painting the foaming, foreboding waters of the Atlantic Ocean, Hartley defers to the power of the sea. On the stormy shore of Schoodic Point, in Maine's Acadia National Park, he found a scene that showed no signs of human civilization—which must have suited him, for he once described Maine as a "brutal country" that is "strong, simple, stately." One of a series of seascapes that Hartley made in the 1930s and '40s, the painting captures his fascination with the American landscape and his home state. In works such as this, he strove to establish himself as "the painter from Maine".
"Parasitism is described as a relationship in which a parasite temporarily or permanently exploits the energy of a host," Rakowitz says, in introducing paraSITE. This temporary and transportable shelter for the homeless is dependent on the outtake duct of a building's heating, ventilation, and air-conditioning system for its form and source of heat. paraSITE is a conspicuous social protest, not a long-term solution to homelessness. "It is very much an intervention that should become obsolete," Rakowitz says. "These shelters should disappear like the problem should. In this case, the real designers are the policymakers."
Parreno belongs to a generation of artists who emerged during the early 1990s advocating an art practice that fosters active exchange with other artists and with the public, often in the form of participatory projects or events. The posters that make up Fade to Black depict images or texts—a photograph from an ephemeralevent, a typewritten document—related to the artist's work from the previous decade, made in collaboration with contemporaries such as Rirkrit Tiravanija and Liam Gillick. As the gallery lights intermittently turn on and off, the posters—printed in phosphorescent ink—fade in and out of visibility. Glowing in the darkness and mostly invisible in the light, the imagery on the posters, as Parreno has said, forms a sort of intangible archive of his formative years—a "flickering memory" of his artistic practice.
Part of a generation of young German painters dubbed Neo-Expressionists during the 1980s, Anselm Kiefer has explored German myth and history in his art since the early 1970s. Woodcut, the only printmaking technique Kiefer uses, has played a central role in his work. However, rather than creating conventional prints published in standard editions, he incorporates woodcuts into paintings, groups them together to create works that rival the grand scale of his paintings, or uses them in his many illustrated books. To date he has completed approximately one hundred works incorporating the woodcut technique. In 1970 Kiefer began to study with Joseph Beuys at the Academy of Art in Dnsseldorf, where, under Beuys's influence, he embarked on a personal examination of the troubled legacy of Germany's past. He incorporated a wide range of diverse materials into his work, including photographs, straw, tar, lead, sand, and dried plants, as well as woodcut, a technique with a long and distinguished history in German art. Richard Wagner's opera cycle The Ring and the tragic fate of its protagonists Siegfried and Brunhilde form the backdrop for Grane. The heroic role of Brunhilde's horse, Grane, is a recurring motif in Kiefer's work. Here the horse is engulfed in the funeral pyre into which the heroine rides at a climactic moment in the opera. Kiefer's book Der Rhein can be seen as his response to the German tradition of landscape painters such as Caspar David Friedrich and others of the Romantic period. It epitomizes his use of the book format as an evocative metaphor for the communication of collective knowledge and memory.
Part of a generation of young German painters dubbed Neo-Expressionists during the 1980s, Anselm Kiefer has explored German myth and history in his art since the early 1970s. Woodcut, the only printmaking technique Kiefer uses, has played a central role in his work. However, rather than creating conventional prints published in standard editions, he incorporates woodcuts into paintings, groups them together to create works that rival the grand scale of his paintings, or uses them in his many illustrated books. To date he has completed approximately one hundred works incorporating the woodcut technique. In 1970 Kiefer began to study with Joseph Beuys at the Academy of Art in Düsseldorf, where, under Beuys's influence, he embarked on a personal examination of the troubled legacy of Germany's past. He incorporated a wide range of diverse materials into his work, including photographs, straw, tar, lead, sand, and dried plants, as well as woodcut, a technique with a long and distinguished history in German art. Richard Wagner's opera cycle The Ring and the tragic fate of its protagonists Siegfried and Brunhilde form the backdrop for Grane. The heroic role of Brunhilde's horse, Grane, is a recurring motif in Kiefer's work. Here the horse is engulfed in the funeral pyre into which the heroine rides at a climactic moment in the opera. Kiefer's book Der Rhein can be seen as his response to the German tradition of landscape painters such as Caspar David Friedrich and others of the Romantic period. It epitomizes his use of the book format as an evocative metaphor for the communication of collective knowledge and memory.
Part of a series of architectural paintings O'Keeffe made in the late 1920s, Farmhouse Window and Door shows a detail of the upstate New York farmhouse where she regularly summered with her husband, Alfred Stieglitz. The symmetrical window with black shutters is surrounded by a narrow frame of clapboard siding. The floating gray–green rectangle is likely a door inside the home. With its subdued palette and simplified forms, the painting alludes to reflection and transparency. Of this technique O'Keeffe stated, "I found that I could say things with color and shapes that I couldn't say in any other way."
Part of Stella's Notched-V series, begun in late 1964, Empress of India comprises four colored chevron-shaped canvases. Stella deliberately avoided dramatic changes in color intensity, because, he reasoned, "when you have four vectored V's moving against each other, if one jumps out, you dislocate the plane and destroy the whole thing entirely." The lines parallel to the canvas edges, painted in metallic browns and ochers, contribute to Stella's perceptual play of pushing parts of the whole forward and back while maintaining an overall equilibrium. Although it is unclear why Stella chose the phrase "Empress of India" for this painting, the grandly scaled work shares the title taken by Queen Victoria when India was incorporated into the British Empire.
Part woman, part crustacean, and part insect, Woman with Her Throat Cut is rigorously horizontal. Intended by the artist to be placed on the floor without a base, it suggests the violent image of a woman raped and murdered.
Paul Cézanne fils, ParisBernheim-Jeune, Paris, 1907Montross Gallery, New York, 1916John Quinn, New York. Purchased from the above, c. 1916Lillie P. Bliss, New York. Acquired from the estate of the above, c. 1925-1926The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1934. Lillie P. Bliss Collection
Paul Cézanne fils ParisBernheim-Jeune, Paris, 1908Sacha Guitry, Paris, 1914Bernheim-Jeune, ParisMontross Gallery, New York, 1916Lillie P. Bliss, New YorkThe Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1934. Lillie P. Bliss Collection
Paul Guillaume (1891-1934), Paris, 1929 [1]. Acquired by Samuel A. Lewisohn (1884-1951) and Margaret Seligman Lewisohn, New York, by 1932 [2]; her bequest to The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1954.[1] Maurice Tuchman, et al., eds., Chaim Soutine (1893-1943): catalogue raisonné, vol. 2, Cologne: Taschen, 1993, no. 131. See also Elie Faure, Soutine, Paris: G. Crès, 1929, pl. 30.  [2] Per cat. rais. Tuchman et al., no. 131. On loan from the collection of Samuel A. and Margaret S. Lewisohn to the following three MoMA exhibitions: Summer Exhibition: Painting and Sculpture, July 10-September 30, 1933; Paintings from New York Private Collections, July 2-September 22, 1946 (cat. p. 7); and Chaim Soutine, October 31, 1950-January 7, 1951 (repr. p. 94).
Paul Guillaume (1891-1934), Paris [1]; Dikran G. Kelekian (1868-1951), New York, by 1938 [2]; Walter P. Chrysler, Jr. (1909-1988), New York, by 1941 [3]; sold through Parke-Bernet Galleries, New York to Valentine Gallery, New York, March 22, 1945 [4]; acquired by Arthur Bradley Campbell, Palm Beach, Florida, by 1946 [5]; sold through Parke-Bernet Galleries, New York to The Museum of Modern Art, New York, October 27, 1954 [6].[1] Maurice Tuchman et al., eds., Chaim Soutine (1893-1943): catalogue raisonné, vol. 2, Cologne: Taschen, 1993, no. 107.[2] Ibid.[3] Collection Walter P. Chrysler, Jr., Virginia Museum of Fine Arts, Richmond, VA, 1941, no. 245.[4] Auction "Collection of Walter P. Chrysler, Jr., New York and Warrenton, Virginia," Parke-Bernet Galleries, New York, lot 101. [5] Paintings by Chaim Soutine 1894-1943, Society of the 4 Arts, Palm Beach, Florida, February 8 - March 2, 1952, no. 12.[6] Auction "The Arthur Bradley Campbell Collection," Parke-Bernet Galleries, New York, October 27, 1954, lot 37.
Paul Guillaume (1891-1934), Paris. By 1917 - after 1922Simone Breton (formerly Simone Kahn, later Simone Collinet), Paris. [By 1928?]; By 1930 - 1936Pierre Matisse Gallery, New York. On consignment from Simone Breton, by July 1936The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Purchased for the Museum by Mrs. J. D. Rockefeller, Jr. from Simone Breton, November 1936
Paul Guillaume (d. 1934), Paris. By 1922 - October 1934Madame Paul Guillaume (Juliette Lacaze, a.k.a. Domenica, 1898-1977) / Estate of Paul Guillaume, Paris. October 1934 - September 1935Pierre Matisse Gallery, New York. On consignment from Mme Paul Guillaume, September 1935 - December 1935James Thrall Soby (1906-1979), New Canaan, Connecticut. Acquired from Pierre Matisse by purchase and exchange, December 1935 - 1979The Museum of Modern Art, New York. James Thrall Soby Bequest, 1979
Paul Guillaume, Paris. By 1922 - 1934Madame Paul Guillaume (Juliette Lacaze, a.k.a. Domenica, 1898-1977) / Estate of Paul Guillaume. October 1934 - 1935Pierre Matisse Gallery, New York. On consignment from Madame Paul Guillaume, 1935, then purchased - still in his collection in 1941Mr. and Mrs. Roberto Sebastián Matta Echaurren (b. 1911, Santiago, Chile). [Purchased from Pierre Matisse Gallery], by 1943Patricia Kane Matta, later Mrs. Pierre Matisse (1923-1972), New York. (The work remained in her possession after her divorce from Matta) - 1972Pierre Matisse, New York. 1972 - 1978The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift of Pierre Matisse in memory of Patricia Kane Matisse, 1978
Paul Guillaume, Paris. By 1922Galerie Surréaliste, ParisGalerie Simon (Daniel-Henry Kahnweiler's second gallery, 1920-40), Paris. By 1936James Thrall Soby (1906-1979), New Canaan, Connecticut. Purchased [c. 1936] - 1979The Museum of Modern Art, New York. James Thrall Soby Bequest, 1979
Paul Guillaume, Paris. By 1922Léopold Zborowski (1899-1932), ParisMadame Veuve Zborowski. 1932 - 1937Auction sale, Collection of Madame VVe. Zborowski, Rains Galleries, New York, April 23, 1937Pierre Matisse Gallery, New York. By 1940James Thrall Soby (1906-1979), New Canaan, Connecticut. Purchased from Pierre Matisse, December 1940 - 1979The Museum of Modern Art, New York. James Thrall Soby Bequest, 1979
Paul Guillaume, ParisGalerie Surréaliste, Paris. By 1928André Breton, Paris. [By 1933] - 1935Pierre Matisse, New York. On consignment from Breton in August 1935James Thrall Soby (1906-1979), New Canaan, Connecticut. Purchased from Breton through Pierre Matisse, December 4, 1935 - 1979The Museum of Modern Art, New York. James Thrall Soby Bequest, 1979
Paul Guillaume, ParisPaul Eluard / Eluard's mother, Paris. c. 1925 - 1935Pierre Matisse Gallery, New York. On consignment from Eluard, August/September 1935James Thrall Soby (1906-1979), New Canaan, Connecticut. Purchased from Pierre Matisse, December 14, 1935 - 1979The Museum of Modern Art, New York. James Thrall Soby Bequest, 1979
Paul Guillaume, Paris. Until 1919André Level, Paris (Galerie Percier). Purchased from Guillaume in 1919Pierre Matisse, New York. By 1940James Trall Soby, New Canaan, Conn. Purchased from Pierre Matisse, 1940 - 1957The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift of James Thrall Soby, 1957
Paul Klee creates a retreat from the misery of World War I with his etching Luftschlößchen (Little castle in the air). As he noted in his diary in 1915, the year he made this print, and before he had been called up as a soldier, "I have long had this war inside me. That is why inwardly it means nothing to me. And to work my way out of my ruins, I had to fly. And I flew. I remain in this ruined world only in memory, as one occasionally does in retrospect."The etching makes reference to a number of Klee's memories and interests: the trip to Tunisia he took in spring 1914, crystalline forms, Gothic architecture, the work of French painter Robert Delaunay. The clarity of form he admired in architecture influenced his compositions at this time; he transformed planes and rhythms he saw in the real world to create an imaginary one.
Paul Nelson was the proverbial American in Paris—born in Chicago, he emigrated in around 1920 to the French capital, where he became a friend of Ernest Hemingway, Ezra Pound, and F. Scott Fitzgerald. Trying to merge his roots with his culture of adoption, he longed for an architecture that would combine American technology and energy with French humanism and sophistication. He was indeed instrumental in introducing European modern architecture to the United States, and also in bringing American flair and taste for the spectacular to France. After taking his license at the Ècole des Beaux-Arts in 1927, Nelson became a member of the School of Paris, the eclectic group of modernist architects that also included Robert Mallet-Stevens. His project for the Palais de la Découverte, represented in this perspective drawing, arose after the scientific exhibit at Paris's 1937 International Exposition greatly impressed authorities in the French government. As a result, Nelson and his colleagues Oscar Nitzchke and Frantz Jourdain were commissioned to produce a study for a permanent science museum in the city. The project, unfortunately never realized, envisioned a structure that was as functional as it was monumental, the outer envelope being designed to contain diverse exhibits with quite different spatial needs. Tensile cables anchored in the central ovoid shell support the circular cantilevered roof. The architects" ideals and aspirations are evident in the clear lines of the drawing, which portrays a building for a positivist, technocratic institution.
Paul Rosenberg (1881-1959), Paul Rosenberg & Co., New York (Inventory no. 6228-1103). Before June 1925 - 1949Mrs. Gerrish H. Milliken, New York. Purchased from Rosenberg, October 7, 1949 Mrs. Anne Milliken Franchetti, New York.  Given by her mother Mrs. G.H. Milliken, by 1949 - 2008The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift of Anne Franchetti, 2008
Paul Rosenberg Gallery, New YorkMrs. Eleanor Rixson Cannon, New York. Purchased form Paul Rosenberg Gallery, New York, in or after June 1951The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Purchased in 1957 from Mrs. Eleanor Rixson Cannon with Hillman Periodicals Fund
Paul W. Cooley, West Hartford, CT, by 1954 John R. Gaines, Lexington, KT. Purchased Christie's, New York, May 14, 1980, Lot 30E.V. Thaw & Co., Inc., New York. Purchased from the above, 1984The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Purchased from the above, 1986
Peacock is the most monumental and commanding example of the many works by Smith based on sketches made in natural history museums and then printed on sheets of textured handmade paper. After emerging in the 1980s with confrontational sculptures of human figures and body parts, Smith shifted her focus in the mid-1990s to the natural world, depicting birds, other animals, and the cosmos in sculptural works as well as prints and books. For Smith, who was raised a Catholic, birds have a particular significance, both as a reference to the poignant beauty of the environment and as a symbol of the Holy Spirit. Here, the authoritative majesty of the peacock's frontal stance reflects the artist's appreciation of this rare and magnificent creature.Smith considers printmaking a vital part of her work, and she has become one of the most innovative and committed printmakers of the last two decades. She has said, "I could just make prints and be satisfied." To date, Smith has published over 150 prints and books, in formats ranging from monumental multimedium prints and elaborate livres d'artiste to screenprinted tattoos and rubber stamps. When she began working with imagery of birds and other animals, Smith discovered the detailed, refined line available in etching, and found it an irresistible medium for describing feathers and fur. In Peacock, her markings are so dense as to almost obscure the bird's face and body and turn the image into an abstraction. The formal delicacy of this work is enhanced by Smith's overt passion for the inherently tactile qualities of paper—a material that she has explored extensively in sculpture. Smith likes to work with translucent, skinlike sheets of handmade paper, folding them, pasting them together, and otherwise manipulating them in inventive and unexpected ways.
Pechstein made this poster to advertise a short-lived journal, An die Laterne (To the lamp post), which promoted the incumbent Social Democratic Party. Its image of clenched-fisted, flag-carrying protestors—probably Communists—marching by a man hanged from a lamppost was a warning against the mob violence and anarchy that threatened to destabilize the fledgling Weimar Republic. Pechstein was one of the most politically engaged artists of the early postwar period.
[Peggy Guggenheim, New York. Sent by Schwitters from Lysaker, Norway, October 1938] Mary Callery (1903-1977; sculptor and art dealer), New York Philip Johnson, New York. By bequest from Mary Callery, [1977] – 1979 The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift of Philip Johnson, 1980
Perhaps influenced by the artist's work in textile manufacturing, the highly textured surface of this painting recalls the tactility of fabrics, and its repeating forms, symmetrical composition, thick outlines, and bold colors evoke the patterning and print motifs often seen on textiles. Hirshfield placed the tiger—based on an illustration in a children's book—within an imaginary and highly stylized natural landscape, transforming a simple image into what MoMA's founding director, Alfred H. Barr, Jr., called the most "unforgettable animal picture."
Peter Eisenman designed eleven houses between the late 1960s and the 1970s that explore the principles of autonomous architecture. In the drawing for House IV, designed for a site in Falls Village, Connecticut, but never realized, a sequence of axonometrics illustrates the transformation of a basic cube into a highly developed spatial configuration. Based on a generative rule system, in which each move is a response to the last, the cube is cut, extended, and rotated until the final form is achieved without regard to function and program.
Pfeiffer transforms an ordinary televised NBA basketball game into a rapturous study of spectacle and spectatorship. By painstakingly manipulating and reprocessing five thousand digital frames, the artist removes the presence of the athletes on the court, leaving only a palimpsest of their hands. He centers our attention—like that of the excited fans with their exploding flashbulbs—on the gravity–defying basketball as it mysteriously, even miraculously, floats in midair.Pfeiffer confounds the ideal of Renaissance one–point perspective by guiding our attention toward the margins of the frame: our eyes never rest as the ball is tossed this way and that. Also, he intensifies the perceptual experience by reducing the scale of the looped image. By presenting it on a miniature LCD monitor easily seen by only one viewer at a time, he transforms a dramatic public sporting event into a moment of private, almost devotional, contemplation. "The ideal of painting is when you can forget your body and have a visual experience that is really pure," Pfeiffer has observed, "[but] in sports, you cannot disembody your eye, because it is a matter of coordinating your body and your eye and your mind." Just as professional basketball players cope with sensory overload on the court, making split-second decisions, viewers of this work have their habits of perception thrown off balance.
Photographic works have often taken the form of an extended series of photographs presented in a book or album. Among the most ambitious projects in the history of photography was Sander's brilliant, unfinished Citizens of the Twentieth Century, a systematic survey of German society comprising portraits of representative types from all walks of life. Here, the politician's cape sweeps upward in an unbroken line that extends to the tip of his umbrella—an appropriate attribute of a representative of the people—which he holds with proper German rectitude.In 1929 Sander published a book of sixty photographs. Accompanying the book was an invitation to subscribe to the eventual publication of the entire body of portraits, which the photographer claimed to have made "without prejudice for or against any party, alignment, class, society." In 1934, the year after the Nazis came to power, they seized the book and destroyed its plates.
Photographs made from above or below or at odd angles are all around us today—in magazine and television ads, for example—but for Rodchenko and his contemporaries they were a fresh discovery. To Rodchenko they represented freedom and modernity because they invited people to see and think about familiar things in new ways. This courtyard certainly was familiar to Rodchenko; he made the picture from the balcony of his own Moscow apartment. The photograph strikes a perfect balance between plunging depth and a flat pattern—two darker forms enclosing a lighter one—and between this simple pattern and the many irregular details that enliven it. Rodchenko's control over the image is suggested by his particular point of view: to keep the balcony below him from intruding its dark form into the lighter courtyard, he was obliged to lean rather precariously over the railing of his own balcony.
Picasso cast six bronze copies of Glass of Absinthe from a wax original and decorated each of them uniquely. In this version he broke new ground by incorporating an existing object into his sculpture: a real absinthe spoon nestles between the modeled bronze sugar cube and glass. (Absinthe is prepared by pouring the brilliant green liquid through a sugar cube resting on a slotted spoon like the one seen here.) Picasso spoke of his desire to explore different modes of representation: "I was interested in the relation between the real spoon and the modeled glass. In the way they clashed with each other."
Picasso created Bull during a period in which he was occupied with making sculptures out of thin planes, both of wood and sheet metal. Bull references painting in its near flatness and, more directly, in its incorporation of a painting stretcher to frame the bull's face. Within this stretcher, the heads of two screws represent the bull's eyes, and a small wooden ball forms its nose. Picasso kept Bull in his own collection; it was not exhibited until after his death.
Picasso illustrated a story by French writer Honoré de Balzac in the late 1920s. These portraits from the 1950s were issued with a text by his friend, Surrealist poet and anthropologist Michel Leiris. The patterning in some of the faces is a device Picasso began to employ in the late 1940s.
Picasso met Jacqueline Roque in 1953, when she worked in a sales position for the pottery studio where he made ceramics in the South of France. She was twenty-seven when they met; he was seventy-two. Roque moved in with Picasso in 1954; the couple married in 1961. They remained together until the artist's death, in 1973, a relationship that for Picasso endured far longer than any other.
Picasso met Olga Khokhlova, a ballerina, in 1917. They married in 1918, and she was the muse of his Neoclassical period. The couple had a son in 1921. They separated in 1935, but never divorced. This is one of very few printed representations of Olga Picasso.
Picasso met Surrealist photographer Dora Maar in the winter of 1935–36 and the two were lovers until the early 1940s, through the turmoil of the Spanish Civil War and the outbreak of World War II. In addition to her involvement in Surrealist circles, Maar was active in leftist political causes. Her volatile personality was well–known; Picasso called her his "weeping woman."This image, associated with  Maar, may also reference Picasso's former lover, Marie–Thérèse Walter, and Olga Picasso, to whom he was still married. In addition, it expresses his despair during the Spanish Civil War; it was made in conjunction with his celebrated painting Guernica (1937).
Picasso painted The Kitchen in November 1948, on the thirty-year anniversary of the death of the poet Guillaume Apollinaire, his dear friend, and just seven days after Apollinaire's widow asked Picasso to revisit an earlier memorial project.  Twenty years before, Picasso had designed the commemorative sculpture Monument to Apollinaire, but the Apollinaire Committee had deemed it too abstract to suit its purpose (a later version is on display in the Museums Sculpture Garden). The Kitchen's wiry linearity evokes Monument to Apollinaire. Picasso used  his kitchen, a large, white, empty room, as a subject in order to make a painting, he reported, "out of nothing." He created the somber, existential work at the end of a series of large-scale monochromatic paintings, including the monumental Guernica (1937), all of which depict scenes of violent turmoil. He had also recently returned from his first visit to the Nazi concentration camp in Auschwitz, Poland, and the works restricted, mute abstraction may be a response to Europe's recent atrocities as well as the loss of a great friend.
Picasso sculpted Woman's Head (Fernande) out of clay in Paris in the fall of 1909. It was made directly after the artist spent the summer in Horta de Ebro, Spain, where he painted numerous portraits of his companion, Fernande Olivier. Woman's Head (Fernande) shows Picasso working through ideas that would become central to Cubism. The sculpture maintains the basic shape of a head, but its projected and recessed planes break down solid mass into shifting volumes that are suggestive of different points of view.Picasso's dealer, Ambroise Vollard, bought the original clay version from Picasso in 1910, and with the artist's permission he arranged for it to be cast in plaster and then in bronze.
Picasso's studio in the town of Vallauris, where he worked beginning in 1948, was next to a yard into which potters threw debris—pieces of metal and shards of ceramics. After deciding to sculpt a goat, Picasso searched the yard for discarded materials that could suggest parts of the animal's body. He crafted a skeleton with these objects, and filled out the sculpture with plaster. A wicker basket forms the goat's rib cage; two ceramic jugs were modified to serve as its udders. Flat palm fronds shape the slope of the goat's spine and the length of its snout, and metal scraps are used as structural units throughout.
Picasso was a great animal lover and he surrounded himself with pets such as dogs, goats, and birds (including an owl he tamed to sit on his finger). This rapport translated in his art to distinctive renderings of an animal's features and movements. While some animals served as fearsome symbols for him, most were free of such associations and depicted with charm and apparent pleasure.
Pierre Alechinsky was an active member of the artists' group CoBrA, an acronym derived from its members' origins in Copenhagen, Brussels, and Amsterdam. Established in 1948, CoBrA was a postwar European phenomenon, contemporary with Abstract Expressionism though more collaborative and politicized in its activities. While rejecting the official tenets of Surrealism, CoBrA used similar spontaneous methods to formulate individualized iconographies tied to Northern European folk art, "primitive" art forms, and children's drawings. Introduced to printmaking in 1944, Alechinsky studied typography, poster design, and book illustration at the National College of Architecture and Decorative Arts in Brussels. When CoBrA disbanded in 1951 he moved to Paris on a grant from the French government to study etching and engraving at Stanley William Hayter's celebrated Atelier 17. There he met Jean Clerté, a printer who became his primary collaborator. He also formed long-term relationships with other celebrated European workshops and printers, including Imprimerie Clot, Bramsen et Georges, Imprimerie Arte, and Atelier Bordas for lithography, and Valter and Elenora Rossi, Robert Dutrou, and Piero Crommelynck for etchings and engravings. He has created over eighteen hundred prints, including book illustrations, posters, and ephemeral works. One Stone, Two Passes demonstrates Alechinsky's use of framing devices, understood as both frontier and threshold, which appear frequently in his work. An encompassing black stroke gives cohesion to a set of seemingly isolated and fragmentary semifigurative images, a few of which are themselves enclosed by marked boundaries of a frame. Framing elements become even more complex and ornamental in later prints by the artist.
Pierre-Auguste Renoir did not make prints until he was almost fifty years old, after he was an established Impressionist painter renowned for his bathers, landscapes, and portraits of the Parisian leisure class. Between about 1890 and 1908 he made approximately sixty prints—roughly half of them etchings and half lithographs—most of which were commissioned for books or albums. Pinning the Hat, one of Renoir's largest, most elaborate prints, is among the lithographs he published in the 1890s, when color lithography finally began to shed its commercial associations and became a vehicle for original expression. His efforts in this medium were greatly indebted to the enterprising encouragement of two men: the Parisian dealer Ambroise Vollard, who commissioned prints by contemporary artists, and eventually became the most important print publisher of his time; and Auguste Clot, the great lithography printer who printed many of Vollard's editions. Vollard believed that by using the finest paper and inks and employing the best master printers his editions would appeal to collectors as affordable alternatives to unique works. To create this print, Renoir made a preliminary drawing on paper, which was transferred to the lithographic stone. He then reworked the image on the stone, using lithographic ink. After this state was printed, he colored an impression with pastel, which the printer then used as a guide for the preparation of the color print. The final print bears the kind of loose, feathery markings and vivid, atmospheric coloring that are hallmarks of Renoir's paintings. The subject, which Renoir had previously treated in a pastel and an oil painting of 1893, as well as in three etchings of 1894, is the painter Berthe Morisot's daughter, Julie, pinning flowers on her cousin Paulette's broad-brimmed hat.
Pierre Bonnard was a member of the Nabis (Hebrew for "prophets"), a Parisian Post-Impressionist group whose aesthetic influences included Japanese ukiyo-e woodblock prints and whose goals called for a greater connection between art and everyday life through a synthesis of fine art and ordinary subjects. The democratic nature of printmaking was therefore ideally suited to Bonnard, as the multiple impressions of a print could be experienced by a relatively broad audience. Additionally, he benefited from technical innovations in color lithography, his primary print medium, which had led to renewed interest in printmaking in the 1890s. Bonnard created more than one hundred twenty editioned projects between 1891 and 1947, including designs for theater programs, exhibition announcements, sheet music, book and journal illustration, and individual prints. His first poster commission, an advertisement for champagne, appeared in 1891 and was an immediate success. This was eventually followed by nine other posters, including this one for La Revue blanche, a Parisian periodical that published work by avant-garde writers and included prints by contemporary artists. This and Bonnard's other posters bear many of the same design hallmarks: unmodulated color, a playful depiction of flattened space, and a decorative handling of silhouettes and textures. A similar treatment of form and space is visible in The Little Laundry Girl, which depicts one of the thousands of women and girls employed by the Parisian laundry industry. It was one of twenty-two prints by various artists included in a portfolio issued by the renowned Parisian publisher Ambroise Vollard. Bonnard's other projects with Vollard included Parallèlement, one of six books illustrated by the artist. Bonnard's masterful integration of his sensual lithographs with Paul Verlaine's erotic love poems has made Parallèlement a seminal example of the deluxe livre de peintre.
Pierre Bonnard was a member of the Nabis (Hebrew for "prophets"), a Parisian Post-Impressionist group whose aesthetic influences included Japanese ukiyo-e woodblock prints and whose goals called for a greater connection between art and everyday life through a synthesis of fine art and ordinary subjects. The democratic nature of printmaking was therefore ideally suited to Bonnard, as the multiple impressions of a print could be experienced by a relatively broad audience. Additionally, he benefited from technical innovations in color lithography, his primary print medium, which had led to renewed interest in printmaking in the 1890s. Bonnard created more than one hundred twenty editioned projects between 1891 and 1947, including designs for theater programs, exhibition announcements, sheet music, book and journal illustration, and individual prints. His first poster commission, an advertisement for champagne, appeared in 1891 and was an immediate success. This was eventually followed by nine other posters, including this one for La Revue blanche, a Parisian periodical that published work by avant-garde writers and included prints by contemporary artists. This and Bonnard's other posters bear many of the same design hallmarks: unmodulated color, a playful depiction of flattened space, and a decorative handling of silhouettes and textures. A similar treatment of form and space is visible in The Little Laundry Girl, which depicts one of the thousands of women and girls employed by the Parisian laundry industry. It was one of twenty-two prints by various artists included in a portfolio issued by the renowned Parisian publisher Ambroise Vollard. Bonnard's other projects with Vollard included Parallèlement, one of six books illustrated by the artist. Bonnard's masterful integration of his sensual lithographs with Paul Verlaine's erotic love poems has made Parallèlement a seminal example of the deluxe livre de peintre.Originally from TextEntryID 69388 (TextTypeID 127) His first poster commission, an advertisement for champagne, appeared in 1891 and was an immediate success (see page 13).
Pierre Bonnard was a member of the Nabis (Hebrew for "prophets"), a Parisian Post-Impressionist group whose aesthetic influences included Japanese ukiyo-e woodblock prints and whose goals called for a greater connection between art and everyday life through a synthesis of fine art and ordinary subjects. The democratic nature of printmaking was therefore ideally suited to Bonnard, as the multiple impressions of a print could be experienced by a relatively broad audience. Additionally, he benefited from technical innovations in color lithography, his primary print medium, which had led to renewed interest in printmaking in the 1890s. Bonnard created more than one hundred twenty editioned projects between 1891 and 1947, including designs for theater programs, exhibition announcements, sheet music, book and journal illustration, and individual prints. His first poster commission, an advertisement for champagne, appeared in 1891 and was an immediate success. This was eventually followed by nine other posters, including this one for La Revue blanche, a Parisian periodical that published work by avant-garde writers and included prints by contemporary artists. This and Bonnard's other posters bear many of the same design hallmarks: unmodulated color, a playful depiction of flattened space, and a decorative handling of silhouettes and textures. A similar treatment of form and space is visible in The Little Laundry Girl, which depicts one of the thousands of women and girls employed by the Parisian laundry industry. It was one of twenty-two prints by various artists included in a portfolio issued by the renowned Parisian publisher Ambroise Vollard. Bonnard's other projects with Vollard included Parallèlement, one of six books illustrated by the artist. Bonnard's masterful integration of his sensual lithographs with Paul Verlaine's erotic love poems has made Parallèlement a seminal example of the deluxe livre de peintre.Originally from TextEntryID 69471 (TextTypeID 127)removed reference to another page:His first poster commission, an advertisement for champagne, appeared in 1891 and was an immediate success (see page 13)
Pierre Janlet, Brussels. By 1948Sidney and Harriet Janis, New York. Purchased from Janlet, 1948William N. Copley (American, b. 1919). Purchased from Janis, by 1962Sidney and Harriet Janis, New York. Purchased back from Copley,1962 – 1967The Museum of Modern Art, New York. The Sidney and Harriet Janis Collection, 1967
Pierre Loeb/Galerie Pierre, Paris. February 1938Pierre Matisse Gallery, New York. On consignment from Pierre Loeb, March - April 1938The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Purchased from Pierre Loeb through Pierre Matisse Gallery with Abby Aldrich Rockefeller Fund, 1938
Pierre Loeb, Paris. [Probably acquired directly from the artist][Several dealers]Justin K. Thannhauser, New York. In his possession for an extended period, until 1952The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Purchased from Thannhauser with A. Conger Goodyear Fund, 1952
Pierre Matisse Gallery, New York. Acquired from the artistJames Thrall Soby, New Canaan, Connecticut. Acquired from Pierre Matisse, 1935 - 1979The Museum of Modern Art, New York. James Thrall Soby Bequest, 1979
Pierre Matisse Gallery, New YorkJames Thrall Soby (1906-1979), New Canaan, Connecticut and New York, New York. Purchased from Pierre Matisse Gallery, April 13, 1943 - 1979The Museum of Modern Art, New York. James Thrall Soby Bequest, 1979
Pittman, a Los Angeles–based artist, has been reenergizing painting through an extravagant collage aesthetic since the early 1980s. Using an extensive repertoire of symbols and decoration borrowed from every imaginable source—advertising, graphic design, Victorian silhouettes, cartoons, and wallpaper, among others—Pittman creates a multiplicity of layered forms. In this work the result is an intricate surface that tells a story through small icons from modern life, such as stereos, cars, arrows, and caskets, plus various figures in silhouette. On top Pittman placed a richly allusive logo: "69." These juxtapositions are intended not to confuse but to create a sense of simultaneous events.Amidst the jokes and commercial messages in his work, Pittman addresses society in a serious way, alluding to the difficulty of attaining happiness and the centrality of desire to human existence. As critic Francesco Bonami has written, "Pittman tells us a story of a society where religion, gender, race, sexuality, and economics overlap, entangle, and clash to jeopardize the democratic background that allowed them to exist in the first place."
[Possibly Galerie Simon (1920-40), Paris?]Mr. and Mrs. Archibald MacLeish, Conway, Massachusetts. Purchased from a gallery in Paris, c. 1926 - 1974The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift of Mr. and Mrs. Archibald MacLeish, 1974
[Possibly Paul Rosenberg, Paris. By 1933 ?]Louis Carré Gallery, New York. By 1951Nelson A. Rockefeller, New York. Purchased from Louis Carré, May 1951The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Given anonymously, 1965
Possibly purchased from the artist by Gustave Fayet, January 6, 1910André Level, Paris. Until March 3, 1927 (Level collection auctioned at Hôtel Drouot. March 3, 1927)Katia Granoff, ParisBaronne Alix Hermine Jeanette de Rothschild, Paris. By c. 1969-73The Ian Woodner Family Collection, New York. 1988 - 2000The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift of the Ian Woodner Family Collection, 2000
Pratt was awarded second prize in the category of Seating Units for this entry. The chair is made from a folded rubber inner tube atop rubber-tipped metal legs. Its four component parts were designed to flat-pack for easy shipping and storage. Pratt was among the first students at the School of Design in Chicago (later the Institute of Design), and in the 1940s he worked with the Presentation Branch of the Office of Strategic Services in Washington, D.C.
Princess Mononoke combines traditional hand–drawn animation with cutting–edge computer-generated imagery and a robust screenplay written by Miyazaki. When a giant boar covered in writhing worms attacks a small village, a young man named Ashitaka bravely defends his community and is wounded in the ensuing battle. When his wound begins to fester, Ashitaka leaves his village to discover the origin of the boar's curse. He soon encounters Lady Eboshi and the inhabitants of Irontown, who have leveled the nearby forests for lumber. The woodland creatures, led by Princess Mononoke, battle the residents of Irontown in an attempt to preserve their once-lush forest. Only Ashitaka believes that humans and the creatures of the forest can peacefully coexist.Anime, the style of animation Miyazaki uses here, originated in Japan and evolved from Japanese manga (comic books). Anime films often include highly stylized futuristic environments and unnatural-looking characters. The narratives are frequently violent, with conflict, both physical and spiritual, at their core. Initially favored by adolescent viewers, traditional anime films and current commercial offerings such as those directed by Miyazaki, Katsuhiro Ôtomo, and Isao Takahata now appeal to a more demographically diverse audience. In Princess Mononoke Miyazaki comments on contemporary debates about irresponsible manufacturing practices, climate change, and the intrusion of development on nature by deftly creating an allegory of conflict between humans and the natural world.
Printed art by Félix González-Torres stands in bold contrast to the etchings, woodcuts, lithographs, and screenprints that make up the traditional history of modern print-making. González-Torres did not pursue this medium for the expressive possibilities inherent in its various techniques but, instead, chose it for its ability to function within his broader conceptual practice. The commercial offset process (photolithography) offered him a vehicle that was easy and inexpensive to produce, and also endlessly replicable. The fact that its surfaces maintained the detached, second-generation appearance of his often grainy photographic sources was a feature that suited his message of ephemerality rather than permanence. Stacks of printed paper, in the form of sculptural objects with Minimalist overtones, constitute a major component of González-Torres's work, which also encompasses such projects as installations of wrapped candy, hanging cords of lightbulbs, and beaded curtains. His printed art extended as well to billboards, give-away booklets, and newspaper inserts, often incorporating his own or found photographs. A gentle, poetic mood emanates from much of this art, suggesting poignant memories or provoking thoughtful consideration of social issues.While González-Torres dealt with gay rights, AIDS, and a variety of governmental abuses in his own work and as a member of the collective Group Material, the subject of "Untitled" (Death by Gun), and its treatment, is unusually specific for him. Appropriating imagery from Time magazine, it presents 460 individuals killed by gunshot in one week in the United States, and includes the name, age, and circumstances of death for each person depicted. No opinion about gun control is added by the artist. Here an issue of public debate engages anyone who follows the artist's intention and takes away one of his sheets. Dissemination, an age-old function of printed art, is ongoing since "Untitled" (Death by Gun) is reprinted as the stack is depleted.
Printmaking, and in particular screenprint, was the basic medium for Andy Warhol's celebrated work on canvas and paper. While a prize-winning commercial artist in the 1950s, he devised a printing process of blotting outline drawings in ink from one surface to another. In a whimsical book of fashionable shoe styles, done at the time he was head of advertising at a shoe company, his blotted drawings were reproduced and then hand-colored by a team of friends. Although Warhol adopted a bland, detached persona, he was an extremely energetic artist and self-promoter who played a significant role in redirecting the course of art. Rather than deriving his work from subjective personal feelings or idealist visions for abstraction, Warhol embraced popular culture and commercial processes. He eventually set up his own print-publishing company called Factory Additions, issuing portfolios of his signature themes. For Marilyn, he created ten highly variable portraits, exploiting the possibilities in screenprinting for shifting colors and off-register effects. By celebrating the seemingly impervious veneer of glamour and fame, but acknowledging its darker inner complexity, these prints reveal Warhol's subtle grasp of American culture. Warhol did not participate in the collaborative printshop system established in America in the 1960s, but his work contributed decisively to what has been characterized as a "print boom" at that time. Through the course of his career, he made nearly eight hundred printed images on paper, about half published in traditional editions. He was also a surprisingly experimental printmaker, issuing hundreds of trial proofs and unique variants. The compositions that make up Camouflage, his last portfolio, constitute a playful commentary on abstraction. Through manipulation of scale and color from sheet to sheet, Warhol alters the visual impact of the military fabric used for concealment. In examples on canvas, he also superimposes his face, linking self-portraiture with disguise.
Printmaking, and in particular screenprint, was the basic medium for Andy Warhol's celebrated work on canvas and paper. While a prize-winning commercial artist in the 1950s, he devised a printing process of blotting outline drawings in ink from one surface to another. In a whimsical book of fashionable shoe styles, done at the time he was head of advertising at a shoe company, his blotted drawings were reproduced and then hand-colored by a team of friends.Although Warhol adopted a bland, detached persona, he was an extremely energetic artist and self-promoter who played a significant role in redirecting the course of art. Rather than deriving his work from subjective personal feelings or idealist visions for abstraction, Warhol embraced popular culture and commercial processes. He eventually set up his own print-publishing company called Factory Additions, issuing portfolios of his signature themes. For Marilyn, he created ten highly variable portraits, exploiting the possibilities in screenprinting for shifting colors and off-register effects. By celebrating the seemingly impervious veneer of glamour and fame, but acknowledging its darker inner complexity, these prints reveal Warhol's subtle grasp of American culture. Warhol did not participate in the collaborative printshop system established in America in the 1960s, but his work contributed decisively to what has been characterized as a "print boom" at that time. Through the course of his career, he made nearly eight hundred printed images on paper, about half published in traditional editions. He was also a surprisingly experimental printmaker, issuing hundreds of trial proofs and unique variants. The compositions that make up Camouflage, his last portfolio, constitute a playful commentary on abstraction. Through manipulation of scale and color from sheet to sheet, Warhol alters the visual impact of the military fabric used for concealment. In examples on canvas, he also superimposes his face, linking self-portraiture with disguise.
Printmaking has provided a rich source for Jasper Johns's art since 1960, when he was first invited to work at Universal Limited Art Editions (ULAE) by the now-renowned publisher Tatyana Grosman. The required stones, plates, and screens, as well as the proofing process itself, have served to facilitate his use and reuse of imagery in new contexts. Such alterations and metamorphosis have allowed Johns to continually forge new meanings for his evolving artistic vocabulary, not only in printmaking but also in painting and drawing, mediums that, for him, are all deeply intertwined. Johns is of the generation that led to a renaissance of printmaking in America, and he has worked at several printshops that were established in this period. Having created some four hundred printed works in the course of his career, in addition to countless working proofs and evolving states, he carefully organizes this body of work in a personal archive that documents his creative process. The technique of lithography is primary for him, but he has also worked extensively in etching and other intaglio processes. In addition, sustained periods of screenprint and monotype activity have led to substantial achievements.  Currently, he has his own press, making printmaking easier and more convenient. From early images like Target and Ale Cans, to enigmatic abstractions and collagelike figurative compositions, Johns has forged an individualized style that is difficult to categorize among the movements of contemporary art. His early placement in a transitional period between Abstract Expressionism and Pop art lost significance as his work unfolded. Yet an underlying emotional and intellectual resonance has remained constant throughout. His probing imagery invites introspection in almost poetic terms of reference, suggestion, and allegory. A confounding complexity keeps it elusive yet also serves to make it a telling reflection of modern experience.
Private and discreet and yet able to deliver a powerful jolt, this alarm is very useful for commuters and for people who want to take a small, private nap. The alarm fits comfortably around and into the ear. The two buttons set the waking time at increments of five and thirty minutes. At the determined time, the alarm vibrates against the wearers auricular pavilion, inside the ear.
Private collection [Berlin]. 1919Galerie Nierendorf GmbH (1933-1938), Josef Nierendorf, Berlin. By 1936 [likely acquired c. 1930]Karl Nierendorf, Nierendorf Gallery (opened in 1937), New York. 1936 - 1947Karl Nierendorf estate, New York. 1947 - [c. 1954]Auction sale of Karl Nierendorf estate, New York. [c. 1954]Samuel A. Berger, New York. Acquired from the Nierendorf estate, [c. 1954] - 1955The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift of Samuel A. Berger, April 1955
Private collection, Norway; sold through Kornfeld & Klipstein, Bern, sale #123 (lot #1074) to Heinz Berggruen/Contemporary Art Establishment, Zurich, June 16, 1967; sold to The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1968.
Private collection, Rodenkirchen, Germany; sold through Kornfeld und Klipstein, Bern to unknown buyer, June 1970 [1]. Sue Rowan Pittmann (d. 2002), Houston; on consignment to Janie C. Lee Gallery, New York, 1984; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York (Gift of Marshall S. Cogan), 1985.[1] Moderne Kunst des neunzehnten und zwanzigsten Jahrhunderts [auction 137], Kornfeld und Klipstein, Bern, June 17, 1970-June 19, 1970 (lot no. 638: Zwei Akte im Freien).
[Probably Ambroise Vollard (1866-1939), Paris, 1905] [1]. Jean Decroux, Paris/Morges, Switzerland, by 1949 [2]; Galerie Lorenceau, Paris [3]; Alex Reid and Lefèvre Ltd., London [4]; Sidney Janis Gallery, New York, by 1954 [5]; sold to Philip L. Goodwin (1885-1958), New York, 1954 [6]; The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1958 (The Philip L. Goodwin Collection). [1] See Jacqueline Munck, "Vollard and the Fauves: Derain and Vlaminck," Cézanne to Picasso: Ambroise Vollard, Patron of the Avantgarde, ed. by Rebecca Rabinow, exh. cat. New York: The Metropolitan Museum of Art, New Haven and London: Yale University Press, 2006, p. 119: "On November 23, 1905, at Henri Matisse's suggestion, Vollard acquired the entire studio - comprising eighty-nine paintings and eighty watercolors - of André Derain (1880-1954), a newcomer to the art scene who had exhibited for the first time at the Salon des Indépendants that spring."[2] Reproduced in Georges Duthuit, Les Fauves, Geneva: Editions des trois collines, 1949, p. 129: "Collection particulière Paris." [3] Included in the exhibition Les Fauves, Kunsthalle Bern, April 29 to May 29, 1950, no. 23: "Coll.[ection] part.[iculière], Morges."[3] Label by Maurice Robinot, Paris inscribed "Lorenceau 76" on verso. [4] Michel Kellermann, André Derain: catalogue raisonné de l'oeuvre peint, Paris: Editions Galerie Schmit, 1992, vol. 1 , no. 75: Barques de pêche à Collioure, 1905.[5] Ibid. Gallery label on verso (# 3922).[6] Collection files, Department of Painting and Sculpture, The Museum of Modern Art, New York.
Produced at WNET, New York City's public television station, Blue Studio is a new form of moving image art called "videodance," developed by Merce Cunningham specifically for the two–dimensional video monitor and realized in 1976 by Cunningham's filmmaker–in–residence at the time, Charles Atlas. The title of the piece comes from the technique known as "chroma key," in which any kind of background imagery imaginable can be superimposed upon the blue area of a video screen. Through this technology, as well as other video devices, Cunningham is transported into a varied series of outdoor landscapes while never actually leaving the confines of his studio. A disjunctive sound collage using the voices of John Cage and Jasper Johns completes the illusion. In its creation of an impossible yet magically fluid dance space, Blue Studio recalls Maya Deren's Study in Choreography for Camera (1945).
Promising forgiveness and deliverance from evil, the Lord's Prayer resonated powerfully in postwar Germany, which was saddled with war guilt, food shortages, and economic privations. Pechstein created this portfolio illustrating its verses during a period of intense insecurity. Only two years earlier he had agitated for revolutionary change in the newly established German republic; now, disillusioned with politics, he seems to be turning his hopes toward heavenly intervention.
Purchased from the artist by Gertrud Woermann (1862-1945), Hamburg [1]; to Irma Woermann-Roosen (1895-1982), Hamburg, by 1917 [2]. Acquired by Martha Rauert (1869-1958), Hamburg, by 1956 [3]; Galerie Änne Abels, Cologne [4]; Fine Arts Associates (Otto M. Gerson) and the New Gallery (Eugene Victor Thaw), New York, by 1957; acquired by exchange by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1957.[1] Collection files (artist's questionnaire), Department of Painting and Sculpture, The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Date of acquisition unknown.[2] Likely received from her mother, Gertrud Woermann, as a wedding present in 1916. Included in the exhibition Ausstellung von Werken neuerer Kunst aus Hamburger Privatbesitz, Hamburger Kunsthalle, November 11-December 2, 1917.[3] Will Grohmann, Schmidt-Rottluff, Stuttgart: W. Kohlhammer, 1956), p. 285: "1912, Nächtliche Häuser, 19.5 x 86.5 cm; Frau Martha Rauert, Hamburg."[4] Collection files (artist's questionnaire), Department of Painting and Sculpture, The Museum of Modern Art, New York.
Putrih, who studied physics before turning to art, draws inspiration from the pure geometric forms of modernist architecture. But among the challenges he sets for himself is "to make an object that expresses its own self–doubt, that questions its own existence."
Q-tips, ladders, plants and small appliances, toothpicks, and pills are among the dozens, even hundreds, of mundane objects that fill Sze's anything-but-mundane installations. Typically commissioned to fill a specific, often unusual, space—from entire galleries to closets, corners, and staircases—these meandering assemblages and environments celebrate the poetry of everyday life.Sze came into prominence in the late 1990s with her painstakingly engineered constructions. At that time she also started to experiment with printmaking, creating a delicate lithograph that related to her drawing style. In 2001 her printmaking expanded in both size and scope, beginning with this untitled print completed over two years. Sze's approach grew from her three-dimensional work; here she presents an imaginary universe that draws on her interest in the basic components of art and architecture (including scale, perspective, composition, and movement). Full of abstract elements and references to buildings and infrastructure, this monumental print creates a dynamic sense of motion when viewed at a distance and offers exhaustive narrative details upon a closer look. It was produced using a combination of printmaking techniques: screenprint for the flat areas of color, digital tools to reprocess aspects of preexisting work, and lithography for the hand-drawn linework.
Radio stations can reflect both local culture and particular genres of music. In this poster advertising WQXR, the oldest commercial classical radio station in the United States, based in New York, Silverstein brought a new light touch to the once staid world of classical music. It matched the informal presentation style and mildly irreverent wit of radio host Lloyd Moss, who began his long association with the station in 1954. As art director of the promotion department at the New York Times, the company that owned the station, Silverstein applied consistent graphic standards to modernizing the image of both WQXR and the newspaper.
"Rancho" is the colloquial Southwestern term for both ranch–style houses and ranch salad dressing.  Many single words offer clear signals—stop, go, open, closed—but Ruscha has made a career of painting and drawing words with more ambiguous associations.  This unusual word is made even more cryptic by its representation in trompe l'oeil letters that simulate liquid.  The work belongs to a group of canvases Ruscha made during what he described as his "romance with liquids."  Ruscha has lived and worked in Los Angeles since 1956, when he moved there from Oklahoma.  With its fiery sunset colors, the painting seems connected to L.A., a city filled with larger–than–life words, from illuminated gas station logos and movie marquees to the iconic Hollywood sign.
Rarely uttered aloud, the work "oof" belongs to the world of comic strips, not the great literature and art, and particularly not to painting.  We expect the emphatic word to appear wrapped in a speech bubble with an exclamation point at the end, but Ruscha has dedicated a large-scale painting to it as if it were worthy of veneration.  Of his work from this period Ruscha has said, "I was interested in monosyllabic word sounds that seemed to have a certain comedic value to them."  In capital letters, "oof" floats against an empty blue backdrop, suspended somewhere between image and language and between iconicity and absurdity.
Rauschenberg enjoys the chance occurrences that take place in artmaking. During work on this print, one of his largest to date, the lithographic stone broke. He embraced the unexpected event, incorporating it into the work as a diagonal white line bisecting the composition.
Rauschenberg works in a variety of media, often pushing the boundaries of his materials to experiment with new ways of creating art. His prints are no exception: In 1963 he used a broken lithographic stone to make his famous print Accident, and, four years later, Booster—which shows an x–ray photograph of the artist's full body—was the largest handpulled print ever made. Shades is one of Rauschenberg's earliest forays into bookmaking, and it, too, reinterprets its medium. Instead of paper, the book is constructed from an aluminum frame holding a fixed title page and five movable plates of plexiglass. Rauschenberg lithographed numerous images taken from newspapers and magazines on each panel. When the plates are inserted into the base—in one of six million possible permutations, according to one expert—the work becomes three dimensional and weblike, glowing from the light of a small bulb attached in the back.
Raycounting generates accurate three-dimensional replicas of objects by measuring the intensity and orientation of light rays. Explains Oxman, “The models explore the relation between geometry and light performance from a computational- geometry perspective. . . . The project is inspired by one of the first rapid prototyping technologies from the 1860s, known as photo sculpting.”
Raymond Pettibon's darkly poetic work takes the form of pen-and-ink drawings incorporating brief handwritten texts. He started as an artist by designing album covers for his brother's punk rock band Black Flag in the late 1970s. In 1978 he began making photocopied compilations of his drawings as books, with more than one hundred titles issued to date. An underground figure for many years before he received art-world attention in the early 1990s, Pettibon originally sold these books in comic-book and record stores in his hometown of Los Angeles. Pettibon's style developed initially from cartoons, although he has also named Francisco Goya and William Blake as influences. His imagery refers to various American cultural archetypes such as surfers, G.I.s in Vietnam, and baseball players, as well as specific figures such as Charles Manson, John F. Kennedy, and Batman. Pettibon's texts are often fragments from his favorite authors, including Henry James, Marcel Proust, and William Faulkner, among many others, taken out of context and sometimes altered. Unconnected in any straightforward way, the texts resonate with the images to suggest complex, ambiguous, and often amusing readings and a sensibility that moves from the lyrical to the sardonic. Pettibon's voice rises from the dark side of American culture, reflecting sources in detective fiction, the tabloid press, and film noir. Lithography has become a natural extension of Pettibon's drawing practice. Since the late 1990s, he has collaborated extensively with Hamilton Press in Venice, California, and has also made prints in conjunction with exhibitions of his drawings at the Kunsthalle in Kiel, Germany (1998), and the Philadelphia Museum of Art (1999). Pettibon worked on the lithographs for the book Plots on Loan, for over seven years. Its large format on thick archival paper monumentalizes the ephemeral nature of the earlier Xerox booklets.
R. Buckminster Fuller's Dymaxion House was inspired by a desire to create widely available low-cost housing. Fuller believed that by adopting the efficient and cost-effective assembly-line production methods used for the automobile he could produce a home at the same price as a car. The unusual hexagonal-shaped house was clad with double-panel vacuum-glazed walls and was fully air-conditioned. Its central aluminum core housed all mechanical equipment and provided the support structure for the roof and floor. Fuller's goal, "maximum gain of advantage from minimal energy input," was never realized, but his concept introduced a radical new way of living to the general public. Despite numerous early orders, only one modified postwar version of the house was ever built.
R. Buckminster Fuller's Dymaxion House was inspired by a desire to create widely available low–cost housing. Fuller believed that by adopting the efficient and cost–effective assembly–line production methods used for the automobile he could produce a home at the same price as a car. The unusual hexagonal–shaped house was clad with double–panel vacuum–glazed walls and was fully air–conditioned. Its central aluminum core housed all mechanical equipment and provided the support structure for the roof and floor. Fuller's goal, "maximum gain of advantage from minimal energy input," was never realized, but his concept introduced a radical new way of living to the general public. Despite numerous early orders, only one modified postwar version of the house was ever built.
Recent advances in materials technology, manufacturing processes, and analytical supercomputing have facilitated the creation of jet-engine fan blades that are significantly stronger, tougher, and quieter than previous iterations. This single fan blade comes from the GE90-115B, one of the largest and most powerful jet engines in the world. The engine contains twenty-two fan blades, each of which is four feet long and weighs less than fifty pounds.Composite technology has allowed GE to design a uniquely formed curved blade that is lighter, more aerodynamic, and larger than traditional titanium blades. The GE90-115B blade is made of carbon fiber and a toughened epoxy matrix, a composite material that is extremely flexible yet highly resistant to impact. Designed using three-dimensional aerospace computer modeling technology, the blade is able to draw a massive amount of air into the engine while operating at a low noise level. The GE90-115B fan blade is a powerful fusion of cutting-edge engineering and design, and its astonishingly beautiful undulating form is a pure expression of its aerodynamic function. Its inclusion in MoMA's collection continues a tradition started in 1934 with the exhibition Machine Art, in which advanced airplane propellers were shown together with coils, ball bearings, and other machine parts of equally honest beauty.
Red Cell with Conduit is a luminous color field divided in two: the upper three-quarters represent what Halley describes as an interior cell, and the lower quarter contains a conduit—a diagrammatic scheme that suggests the flow of information or electricity or the transportation of materials. With this hybrid of high-modernist abstraction and cryptic map, Halley has created a rigorously simple iconography in order, as he has said, to "reinterpret geometric abstraction as a representation of the industrial and post-industrial landscape."
Redon populated his work with a cast of hybrid characters such as this one. These inventions reflected the artist's knowledge of Darwin's theory of evolution, his visits to the natural history museum, lectures he attended at a medical college, and his own dreams and fantasies.
Redon was of the same generation as Impressionist artists Claude Monet and Paul Cézanne, but he believed that their devotion to everyday subjects severely limited the possibilities for their work. His was an art of the imagination and the fantastic. Religious and mystical scenes, like Apparition, are frequent in Redon's work; he rendered them in a personal style—highly colored and textured—without adherence to academic traditions.
Reducing painting to the bare minimum (white paint,  a square, and metal fastenings) Ryman pursues  infinite subtle variations. Here he has applied oil pastel to the textured and slightly translucent surface of sandblasted plexiglass. The visible fastenings together with the ruled pencil lines expose the typically hidden apparatus that holds paintings to the wall. In making this work and the others on view here, Ryman was much more interested in what he calls the “how” of painting—the physical object itself—than the “what”—the image, the story, the symbolism” that convey meaning outside the work.
Reena Spaulings is a fictional artist and art dealer and literary persona.  Under her name, several artists conceived and executed this painting, which features a crudely rendered brick–and–mortar pattern,  The motif was inspired by the Lower East Side neighborhood in New York, where the Reena Spaulings gallery was first located.  Because the birck pattern covers both sides of the unstretched canvas, this work can be displayed in a number of ways: folded, open, lying on the floor, draped over objects, hung as backdrop, or in a combination of these options, as seen here.
Reflecting on his choice of easily recognizable images, Johns said that he was interested in "the idea of knowing an image rather than just seeing it out of the corner of your eye." The map of the United States, in its ubiquity and iconicity, is "seen and not looked at, not examined." Preserving the overall proportions of the country and the shape of its states, Johns's energetic application of paint subverts the conventions of cartography, as do the stenciled names of states, such as Colorado, which is repeated in several locations. Map invites close inspection because its content is both familiar and imaginary.
Reichek draws on the tradition of embroidered samplers to create Conceptual, word-based art. Replacing traditional aphorisms, prayers, and educational texts with quotations from art history and mythology, Reichek painstakingly replicated images of three black abstract paintings and a statement by the artist Ad Reinhardt, her painting teacher. On the right are lines spoken by Penelope in The Odyssey, by Homer, and a design from a Greek vase depicting women making textiles. The artist has explained, "Reinhardt described artmaking very much as Penelope described weaving her tapestry: as a constant process of making and remaking, beginning and beginning again."
Remainders: Novel, Sculpture, Film looks like a remainder table at a chain bookstore. However, the sixteen titles on display—each multiplied to create an impression of stacks of identical books—were never published. The interior images reproduce film frames culled from Ruppersberg's extensive collection of American educational and instructional films from the 1930s to the 1960s. Each volume repeats a different image over and over again to simulate the multiple frames of a film; this is Ruppersberg's attempt to create a cinematic experience in book form. The artist has described this work as a multiple within a multiple, one in which the text can be watched, the film read, and the contents combined to create a novel.
Rendered obsessively in pencil, Mall is part of Noble's magnum opus—the fictitious city of Nobson Newtown. Nobson is "a town of outskirts" built on a decaying wasteland. It includes housing projects, a hospital, factories, and a shopping mall situated in the city center.This large drawing reads like an old architectural plan, illustrating the monolithic mall, unpopulated, from an aerial perspective. Noble begins his drawings with illuminated letters he calls "Nobfont," centering groups of three-dimensional characters on the paper. Here the word "mall" becomes part of the structure of the building, just as, Noble suggests, the mall itself is integral to a city where there is no town hall, house of worship, theater, or restaurant. A close look at the ornamentation of the facade and minarets reveals a chaotic maelstrom of figures engaging in corrupt behavior, as well as imagery from the Old Testament. This mall, once a synagogue, has become a center for commercial consumption.Noble was inspired by his experiences living on "the dole" and witnessing protests against urban planning projects in his east London community. With biting humor he portrays a distorted utopia, reflecting the ways postindustrial urban societies build, consume, and neglect their community infrastructure.
Renowned for painting as well as sculpture, Pablo Picasso is arguably the greatest printmaker of the twentieth century. He created more than two thousand printed images, working primarily in intaglio techniques but also, for extended periods, in lithography and linoleum cut. It was usually the influence of a master craftsman in a collaborative workshop that served as the impetus for Picasso's printmaking, as new techniques fueled his imagination. Picasso's early prints reflect his evolving artistic language and his place within the major modern movements. The Frugal Repast, of 1904, evokes a sense of mystery and nobility surrounding poverty, recalling the Symbolist aesthetic of Picasso's Blue and Rose periods. Two years later, a woodcut of his companion, Fernande Olivier, betrays the simplified forms he found in Iberian sculpture and a raw expressionism inspired by tribal art. Picasso's illustrations for Saint Matorel, with text by his friend Max Jacob, incorporate the Cubist idiom with which he is most closely associated. While this abstracted language of forms served him throughout his career, his work remained aligned with figurative imagery. In his great prints of the 1930s, created in collaboration with master printer Roger Lacourière, his allegorical inclinations are revealed, while these works also share Surrealist preoccupations with the unconscious. Well into his later years, Picasso remained open to the potential of a new technique. He discovered lithography in the 1940s, at the workshop of Fernand Mourlot in Paris. One monumental series created there, Woman in an Armchair, exists in thirty experimental variations. In the late 1950s and early 1960s, he was stimulated by the possibilities of linoleum cut under the tutelage of Hidalgo Arnéra, a printer whose shop was near his studio in southern France. Innovations continued, as evidenced by the one-block process he devised for color printing, seen in the striking Still Life with Glass under the Lamp.
Renowned for painting as well as sculpture, Pablo Picasso is arguably the greatest printmaker of the twentieth century. He created more than two thousand printed images, working primarily in intaglio techniques but also, for extended periods, in lithography and linoleum cut. It was usually the influence of a master craftsman in a collaborative workshop that served as the impetus for Picasso's printmaking, as new techniques fueled his imagination. Picasso's early prints reflect his evolving artistic language and his place within the major modern movements. The Frugal Repast, of 1904...evokes a sense of mystery and nobility surrounding poverty, recalling the Symbolist aesthetic of Picasso's Blue and Rose periods. Two years later, a woodcut of his companion, Fernande Olivier, betrays the simplified forms he found in Iberian sculpture and a raw expressionism inspired by tribal art. Picasso's illustrations for Saint Matorel, with text by his friend Max Jacob, incorporate the Cubist idiom with which he is most closely associated. While this abstracted language of forms served him throughout his career, his work remained aligned with figurative imagery. In his great prints of the 1930s, created in collaboration with master printer Roger Lacourière, his allegorical inclinations are revealed, while these works also share Surrealist preoccupations with the unconscious. Well into his later years, Picasso remained open to the potential of a new technique. He discovered lithography in the 1940s, at the workshop of Fernand Mourlot in Paris. One monumental series created there, Woman in an Armchair, exists in thirty experimental variations. In the late 1950s and early 1960s, he was stimulated by the possibilities of linoleum cut under the tutelage of Hidalgo Arnéra, a printer whose shop was near his studio in southern France. Innovations continued, as evidenced by the one-block process he devised for color printing, seen in the striking Still Life with Glass under the Lamp.
Renowned for painting as well as sculpture, Pablo Picasso is arguably the greatest printmaker of the twentieth century. He created more than two thousand printed images, working primarily in intaglio techniques but also, for extended periods, in lithography and linoleum cut. It was usually the influence of a master craftsman in a collaborative workshop that served as the impetus for Picasso's printmaking, as new techniques fueled his imagination. Picasso's early prints reflect his evolving artistic language and his place within the major modern movements. The Frugal Repast, of 1904, in a richly inked proof from the shop of printer Auguste Delâtre, evokes a sense of mystery and nobility surrounding poverty, recalling the Symbolist aesthetic of Picasso's Blue and Rose periods. Two years later, a woodcut of his companion, Fernande Olivier, betrays the simplified forms he found in Iberian sculpture and a raw expressionism inspired by tribal art. Picasso's illustrations for Saint Matorel, with text by his friend Max Jacob, incorporate the Cubist idiom with which he is most closely associated. While this abstracted language of forms served him throughout his career, his work remained aligned with figurative imagery. In his great prints of the 1930s, created in collaboration with master printer Roger Lacourière, his allegorical inclinations are revealed, while these works also share Surrealist preoccupations with the unconscious. Well into his later years, Picasso remained open to the potential of a new technique. He discovered lithography in the 1940s, at the workshop of Fernand Mourlot in Paris. One monumental series created there, Woman in an Armchair, exists in thirty experimental variations. In the late 1950s and early 1960s, he was stimulated by the possibilities of linoleum cut under the tutelage of Hidalgo Arnéra, a printer whose shop was near his studio in southern France. Innovations continued, as evidenced by the one-block process he devised for color printing, seen here in the striking Still Life with Glass under the Lamp.
Renowned for painting as well as sculpture, Pablo Picasso is arguably the greatest printmaker of the twentieth century. He created more than two thousand printed images, working primarily in intaglio techniques but also, for extended periods, in lithography and linoleum cut. It was usually the influence of a master craftsman in a collaborative workshop that served as the impetus for Picasso's printmaking, as new techniques fueled his imagination. Picasso's early prints reflect his evolving artistic language and his place within the major modern movements. The Frugal Repast, of 1904, shown here in a richly inked proof from the shop of printer Auguste Delâtre, evokes a sense of mystery and nobility surrounding poverty, recalling the Symbolist aesthetic of Picasso's Blue and Rose periods. Two years later, a woodcut of his companion, Fernande Olivier, betrays the simplified forms he found in Iberian sculpture and a raw expressionism inspired by tribal art. Picasso's illustrations for Saint Matorel, with text by his friend Max Jacob, incorporate the Cubist idiom with which he is most closely associated. While this abstracted language of forms served him throughout his career, his work remained aligned with figurative imagery. In his great prints of the 1930s, created in collaboration with master printer Roger Lacourière, his allegorical inclinations are revealed, while these works also share Surrealist preoccupations with the unconscious. Well into his later years, Picasso remained open to the potential of a new technique. He discovered lithography in the 1940s, at the workshop of Fernand Mourlot in Paris. One monumental series created there, Woman in an Armchair, exists in thirty experimental variations. In the late 1950s and early 1960s, he was stimulated by the possibilities of linoleum cut under the tutelage of Hidalgo Arnéra, a printer whose shop was near his studio in southern France. Innovations continued, as evidenced by the one-block process he devised for color printing, seen in the striking Still Life with Glass under the Lamp.
Repository  was presented in The Art of Assemblage, a landmark exhibition organized by William C. Seitz at The Museum of Modern Art in 1961. In a letter to Seitz, Brecht observed that "arrangement" was a more appropriate term for his cabinet piece because of the word's association with music and the organization of elements in a particular order. The objects in Repository are associated with ordinary actions—brushing teeth, opening doors, bouncing balls—and were chosen for their ability to engage viewers in what the artist called "events": everyday tasks that could be performed publicly or privately as art. Brecht, who aimed to blur the boundaries between art and life, was a central figure in Fluxus, an international movement of the 1960s and 1970s that brought together artists working with music, poetry, theater, film, and the visual arts. In 2008 Gilbert and Lila Silverman generously donated their renowned Fluxus collection to the Museum, including an important group of works by Brecht.
Reprising a theme he had first addressed during World War I, Alfred Kubin began working on the twenty-four ink drawings for Ein neuer Totentanz (A new dance of death) in fall 1937 and completed them in March 1938, the same month the Nazis annexed his homeland, Austria. It was not until after the war, in 1947, that the drawings were published as a book. Kubin's fantastic and grotesque images of death resonated deeply with postwar Austrian society. Kubin hoped that "the beauty of [the drawings'] design would remove the fear of death." Here death, although shown to be omnipresent, lurking in both the city and the country, is not violent or gruesome. Instead, a skeletal figure pokes fun at a strongman, goes ice skating, and patiently waits for the conclusion of a bar fight. Death even claims a draftsman who bears Kubin's own features. Kubin was an extraordinarily prolific draftsman, and he made more than 2,300 illustrations, covers, and vignettes for approximately 170 books, including several he wrote himself.
Resting against the wall, Bound Square evokes a painting before it is hung. Of this sculpture, Winsor has said, "I came at it as a painter. You never lose that." Her use of simple shapes and rugged materials is not aimed at reducing form to its rudiments or counteracting the gestural quality of Abstract Expressionism, but rather is designed "to bring you back to yourself, to not refer you to another time or place or person, but to quietly hold you in an inviting stillness until the piece's presence and certainty is yours."
Richard Artschwager studied art in the late 1940s, but spent most of the 1950s earning his living as a commercial furniture maker, which left an indelible mark on his future work. When a devastating fire destroyed his workshop in 1958, he rethought his goals and turned back to art, first making non-functional, furniture-inspired sculpture that allowed him to "explore the world of the subjective." In the 1960s he began producing monochromatic paintings by applying acrylic to textured surfaces of celotex, an industrial building material. His imagery was based on anonymous snapshots or newspaper and magazine photographs. In 1969 publisher and gallery owner Brooke Alexander invited Artschwager to make his first editioned multiple. While this small, three-dimensional format has meshed easily with his sculptural vision, he has also made about twenty individual prints related to the concerns of his paintings. This body of printed work demonstrates the capacity of techniques such as screenprint and etching to further the investigations of Conceptual art practice. Artschwager's work explores recognition and perception as integral steps in the subjective cognitive process. In Interior, through its implied sequential alteration of perspective, he animates the space of one room by moving the viewer through space and time in a cinematic fashion. Each panel stands for the viewer's partial view of the space, yet in juxtaposition a larger sense of the room is revealed. Artschwager uses such effects to depict common objects or places, but his subjects take on enigmatic and mysterious overtones through these subtle explorations of perception and through his muted palette and strangely irregular surfaces. Interior offers a mystifying visual experience of a seemingly ordinary Victorian living room divorced from reality and evoking nostalgia.
Richard L. Feigen, Chicago, by 1957 [1]; to Marlborough Fine Arts, Ltd., London, 1961 [2]; to Janie C. Lee Gallery, New York; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1985 (Gift of R.L.B. Tobin).[1] "War and Aftermath," Cambridge, MA, Harvard University, Busch-Reisinger Museum, 1957. "Richard L. Feigen Collection," World House Galleries, New York, September 18-November 2, 1957 (no. 20: Soldier).[2] "19th and 20th Century Drawings, Watercolours, Sculpture", London, Marlborough Fine Arts Ltd., February - March, 1961.
Ring, one of Davis's "plastic paintings," marked a departure from his works on canvas. The artist made Ring "the same way one makes a fiberglass boat or car body"—by layering translucent polyester resin, fiberglass, and pigment in a Formica mold. Its machine-polished surface recalls the fiberglass surfboards of 1960s Los Angeles, while the painterly brushstrokes and illusion of receding space are traditional pictorial conventions, making Ring an intersection of painting, sculpture, and the manufactured object.
Rising above two high wheels recalling those of an ancient Egyptian chariot, a filament-thin woman stands poised in precarious equilibrium, as if perpetually suspended between movement and stasis, advance and retreat. According to the artist, The Chariot was partly inspired by the memory of a "sparkling pharmacy cart" he saw when briefly hospitalized. It was also prompted by his desire to position a figure in empty space "in order to see it better and to situate it at a precise distance from the floor."
Ritchie combines mythology, science, religion, and history in an evolving narrative using a visual language of scientific theorems, symbolic characters, and cartography. The chapter shown here describes a struggle between life and death, order and chaos; hearts, circles, and equations stand in for events, elements, characters, and principles.
Rivera spent the tumultuous years of the Mexican Revolution (1910–20) painting and traveling abroad in Europe. Upon returning to his native country in 1921, he exalted indigenous Mexican people and traditions, making them a central subject of his work. As he later recalled, "My homecoming aroused an aesthetic rejoicing in me which is impossible to describe. . . . Everywhere I saw a potential masterpiece—in the crowds, the markets, the festivals, the marching battalions, the workers in the workshops, the fields—in every shining face, every radiant child." This painting, depicting a flower festival held on Good Friday in a town then called Santa Anita, was included in a solo exhibition of Rivera's work at MoMA in 1931. Only the second artist (after Henri Matisse) to receive this honor, Rivera was, at the time, an international celebrity: the New York Sun hailed him as "the most talked about artist on this side of the Atlantic."
Robert Mangold is among the leading painters to emerge in the mid-1960s using a reductive vocabulary of line and color. Influenced by prehistoric cave painting and Renaissance frescos in which the image is applied directly to the wall, Mangold strove to integrate paint and canvas in works that stress their frontality and flatness. His compositions often comprise multiple canvases, reflecting his ongoing themes of fragmented wholes and unified parts. In recent years his austere geometry and monochrome backgrounds have evolved into multicolored palettes and textured surfaces. Printmaking's potential for serial imagery made it a natural medium for Mangold, allowing him further experimentation with his variations on a theme. Since the 1980s he has frequently explored new ideas and motifs through printmaking, with imagery from prints preceding that in paintings. In addition, the delicate line attainable with etching, and the subtle tone and dense surfaces of aquatint, have been particularly suited to Mangold's Minimalist compositions. He has also worked extensively in screenprint, and in recent years has exploited the textured backgrounds achievable with the woodcut technique. He has printed with numerous shops around the United States and Europe, often collaborating with one or two for an extended period of time. Most notable are Crown Point Press and Simmelink/Sukimoto as well as Derriére L'Étoile and Spring Street Workshop. Since his first published projects in the late 1960s, Mangold has completed more than one hundred seventy-five prints, most of them comprised in serial portfolios. Seven Aquatints reveals Mangold's continued fascination with the relationships between interior and exterior forms. He creates a palpable tension between the perfect outer circle and the flawed interior square. Allusions to Renaissance art abound in the rich antique tones and in the suggestion of The Proportions of Man, Leonardo da Vinci's renowned drawing of an outstretched figure within a circle and square.
Robert Venturi's crucial essays Complexity and Contradiction in Architecture (1966) and Learning from Las Vegas (1972) served as catalysts in overturning International Style modernism's domination of architectural design. Promoting "messy vitality over obvious unity," in part through the use of such punchy slogans as "Less is a bore," Venturi spoke for an architecture favoring multiple meanings over consolidated form. He also revitalized professional interest in adapting historical styles and devices to contemporary use. Working with his colleagues John Rauch and Denise Scott Brown, Venturi designed this house for a family of three in northern Delaware, drawing on the vernacular domestic architecture of the region. The design, he has said, is particularly indebted to classic eighteenth-century barns, but these traditional buildings served more as inspiration than as sources to be literally imitated. In this drawing of the western facade, the lunette screen above and the Doric columns below are distorted in proportion and scale. In actuality these bulbous columns are thin, non-load-bearing planes of wood, as flat as the drawing itself. Symbolic rather than structural, they retain their associative power even when stripped of their functional one, and the facade becomes a stage set for the dramatization of domesticity and the local architectural heritage.
Rodchenko made the Black on Black series, of which this work is part,in direct response to the White on White paintings that Kazimir Malevich had made earlier in 1918. Both groups were shown at the Tenth State Exhibition of Nonobjective Creation and Suprematism in Moscow the following year. With this gesture Rodchenko took an oedipal swipe at themore established artist and directly challenged the fundamental principles of Suprematism: if for Malevich the white in his paintings connoted the infinite expanse of the ideal, Rodchenko used black, in a variety of textures and finishes, to ground painting in its physical properties, bringing attention to the material quality of its surface. In contrast to the tilting plane ofMalevich's White on painting, the arcing forms of Rochenko's canvas suggest dynamic motion.
Roland, Browse & Delbanco, London (gallery)A. M. Adler and Norman Hirschl, New York (gallery). Acquired from Roland, Browse & DelbancoThe Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift of A. M. Adler and Norman Hirschl, 1958
Rome, Twombly's home since the 1950s, has nurtured his fascination with classical antiquity. In this work he refers to the Roman myth in which Jupiter, lord of the gods, takes the shape of a swan in order to ravish Leda, the beautiful mother of Helen (over whom the Trojan war would be fought). Twombly's version of this old art-historical theme supplies no contrast of feathers and flesh but a fusion of violent energies in furiously thrashing overlays of crayon, pencil, and ruddy paint. A few recognizable signs—hearts, a phallus—fly out from this explosion, in stark contrast to the sober windowlike rectangle near the top of the painting.
Ron Herron, a founding member of Archigram, the influential British group known for its admixture of science-fiction and pop culture, created his Walking City out of an indefinite number of giant roaming pods containing different urban and residential areas. The pods could be connected by retractable corridors and, together, form a conglomerate metropolis. This literally mobile and indeterminate architecture was not so much a serious proposition for a structure as a commentary on the way in which change dominates every aspect of the modern city.
Rose Sélavy figures allusively in this "semi-Readymade," which consists of a small metal cage containing marble cubes and a thermometer. Duchamp explained that the thermometer was to register the coldness of the marble cubes since it is the cold that causes sneezes.
Ross uses a cumbersome eight–by–ten–inch view camera on a tripod and prints her negatives on printing–out paper; she places them on the paper in the sun for exposure, sometimes for several hours. This old-fashioned process provides exquisite detail and renders Ross's subjects with astonishing fidelity.Ross launched her project of photographing in schools in 1992, when she decided to revisit her past by taking pictures of children in the small-town Pennsylvania public schools she had attended. This portrait invites us to compare two girls who are beginning to make decisions about who they will become. Because they are twins, the formulation of their individual identities may be especially fraught, or at least different from the norm. This photograph is a welcome display of empathy that helps us remember and reflect on the immense vulnerability that defines a child's experience.
Rosy (1892-1926) and Ludwig (1860-1922) Fischer, Frankfurt am Main; sold by Rosy Fischer to the Städtisches Museum für Kunst und Gewerbe, Halle, December 1924 [2]; removed as "degenerate art" by the Reich Ministry for Public Enlightenment and Propaganda, 1937 [3]; on consignment to Karl Buchholz (1901-1992), Berlin, 1939; to Curt Valentin (1902-1954), New York, 1939; purchased by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, April 5, 1940.[1] One of twenty-four paintings Rosy Fischer sold to the Museum für Kunst und Kunstgewerbe in Halle (contract between Rosy Fischer and the "Stadtgemeinde Halle," December 15, 1924, Archives of the City of Halle). See Andreas Hüneke, “Die lange Geschichte der Hallenser Fischer Bilder,” Expressionismus und Exil:  Die Sammlung Ludwig und Rosy Fischer, Frankfurt Am Main, ed. by Georg Heuberger et al., exh. cat. Frankfurt: Jüdisches Museum, 1990, pp. 81-94. Before the painting was removed from the collection in 1937, it was included as "degenerate art" in the exhibition "Entartete Kunst" at the Städtische Galerie Nuremberg, September 7-September 21, 1935; and on display in the "Schreckenskammer / "Degenerate Art" galleries of the Städtisches Museum für Kunst und Kunstgewerbe, Halle, November 27, 1935-July 25, 1937 (see  Beschlagnahmeinventar "Entartete Kunst", "Degenerate Art" Research Center, FU Berlin).[2] EK no. 14199: Selbstbildnis.
Roth made each of his accumulation books with a different type of found material, which he gathered, trimmed to a uniform size, and bound; bok 3a is made from pages of a daily newspaper from Iceland (where Roth had a home). These books were issued in small editions, but each volume is unique, as the contents were dictated by what was available in the printshop at the time.
Rothschild characterizes her work as "magic maximalism"—a playful inversion of Minimalism, an art movement of the 1960s. Absolute Power was made by interweaving what the artist calls "sought" (not found) materials—such as posters, photographs, and postcards—to form a new image. Rothschild considers the accumulation of her materials to be an important part of her process, as it heightens her awareness of the images around her. She overlays geometric forms "with ideas of faith, death and magic," she says, not only to subvert Minimalism's rational basis, but to investigate the popularity of new Age spiritualism and the desire to find an individual path to spirituality. The Day–Glo paint colors—simultaneously seductive and repellent to the eye—pose a contrast to the drawing's romantic motif and evoke those used in Minimalist works.
Roth's iconoclastic body of artwork includes everything from sound recordings to works made with organic materials intended to decay over time. Throughout his career, however, books and other printed material provided the most fertile ground for his artistic experimentation. While on a residency at the Philadelphia Museum College of Art in 1964, Roth initiated Snow, for which he created some six thousand drawings, photographs, and collages. He selected five hundred of these to be reproduced in a book, but the publication was canceled and the artist returned to Iceland with his work. In 1969, Roth turned his unpublished book project into an installation by adding a table—on which the spiral–bound volume rests here—and two wooden chairs. A year later, a book version of Snow was finally printed as the eleventh volume of Roth's self–published catalogue raisonné.
Rousseau, a toll collector for the city of Paris, was largely a self-taught painter, although he had ambitions of entering the Academy. This was never realized, but the sharp colors, fantastic imagery, and precise outlines in his work—derived from the style and subject matter of popular print culture—struck a chord with a younger generation of avant-garde painters. Rousseau described the subject of The Sleeping Gypsy thus: "A wandering Negress, a mandolin player, lies with her jar beside her (a vase with drinking water), overcome by fatigue in a deep sleep. A lion chances to pass by, picks up her scent yet does not devour her. There is a moonlight effect, very poetic."
Roysdon's work encompasses art-making, choreography, curating, writing, and organizing. Sense and Sense is part of her ongoing exploration of how political movements are represented, which hinges on a broad understanding of choreography as organized movement. Roysdon is interested in "the way an idea of 'free movement' and people demonstrating comes to be represented by an abstraction and in turn comes to represent the idea of the city." For this piece, she collaborated with the performance artist MPA, whose work examines the social and political implications of the body in space.MPA lays on her side and mimics walking, her body pressed to the ground, through Stockholm's buzzing central square, Sergels Torg, a historical site of countless political demonstrations. Her physical struggle to move in a manner that appears easy and uninhibited recalls the utopian ideals embedded in the site, which was planned to accommodate political protests. In this way, Sense and Sense prompts passersby to compare their everyday movement in the iconic square to the history of political movements galvanized there since its construction in 1967.
R.S.V.P. I was included in Nengudi's breakthrough exhibition at Just Above Midtown Gallery in 1977. It is made of dark-hued panty hose that have been pulled, knotted, and filled with sand to create bulging, pendulous sacks and tautly outstretched limblike forms. "I am working with nylon mesh because it relates to the elasticity of the human body," Nengudi has explained. "From tender, tight beginnings to sagging. . . . The body can only stand so much push and pull until it gives way, never to resume its original shape."
Rudolph was Chairman of the School of Architecture at Yale University from 1957 to 1965, during which time he also designed its Art and Architecture Building, one of his most famous projects. Completed in 1963, the building's brutalist concrete form and spatially intricate interiors drew both accolades and criticism. The building is clad in grooved cast-concrete panels that were hammered by hand to create a rough "corduroy" texture that generates constantly shifting patterns of light and shadow, brilliantly captured in this ink drawing. Rudolph was one of few architects who drew their own presentation drawings; he used a distinctive technique of closely spaced lines drafted in ink and embellished with additional parallel and crosshatched lines to render depth and shade. The building created a complex sectional development of interlocking multistory spaces within a monumental structure, in the tradition of Frank Lloyd Wright. It is currently being renovated by Gwathmey Siegel & Associates Architects.
Ruff started making portraits in 1981 while he was still a student at the Düsseldorf Art Academy. He studied with Bernd and Hilla Becher, and in keeping with the spare aesthetic of their work he set strict parameters for his project: subjects would be photographed showing only their heads and shoulders, wearing their own everyday clothes, and with neutral facial expressions. Ruff intended that large groups of these approximately eight-by-ten-inch color portraits would be hung together, so to add variety he photographed each person against a colored backdrop.By 1987 Ruff had distilled the project in several ways, settling on an almost exclusive use of the full frontal view, eliminating the colored backdrop in favor of unvarying white, and enlarging the finished work to monumental proportions. Despite the detail that the scrupulous technique and large scale afford, the viewer is left with no insight into the person pictured. And yet, considered together, these psychologically blank portraits convey something of the character of Ruff's generation — the first to be born after World War II.
Ruppersberg's work frequently refers to movies, television, advertising, and literature. "I think the copy is the truth too," he has explained. Here, he has transcribed Oscar Wilde's 1890 novel The Picture of Dorian Gray on twenty panels, the individual canvases evoking pages of a book. "The original premise was to conflate two forms of 'reading' and 'writing.' One involves narrative, and the other is a form of 'visual' art that is read instantly. Its presence is read all at once." Wilde's story itself ruminates on fine art, with the protagonist of the novel becoming a mysterious portrait with a metaphorical life of its own. The meticulous copying of Wilde's text speaks to Ruppersberg's appreciation for the novel while translating the written word into a work "for an audience outside the book."
Russian-born painter Vasily Kandinsky's involvement with printmaking extends beyond the more than two hundred prints that he executed during his lifetime, to his work as an organizer, teacher, and art theorist. In 1901 he formed the Phalanx Society in Munich, an art school that sponsored exhibitions and provided a forum for printmaking. Ten years later, he co-founded the Blaue Reiter (Blue Rider) group, which published an important almanac with essays and original prints. His own writings included Concerning the Spiritual in Art, in which he details his artistic philosophy of the psychology of color and the "inner necessity" of shapes and compositions, and Point and Line to Plane, which includes a description of the formal and sociological attributes of various print mediums. Although he worked in a Moscow print shop in 1895, Kandinsky did not make his own prints until 1897. Between 1902 and 1904, he completed more than fifty woodcuts, including The Night, Large Version, which is typical of his romantic, fairytale-inspired images of the time. He soon began working on the fifty-six woodcuts for Klänge, which traces the voyage of Saint George and other knights on their search for truth. It contains the artist's own prose poetry and follows the evolution of his artistic style from figuration, inspired by Russian folk culture, to an expressionist abstraction. Kandinsky's version of abstraction continued to develop in Russia under the influences of Suprematism and Constructivism. The result was a new, more rigidly geometric, abstract vocabulary that he took with him to Weimar in 1922, when he went to teach at the Bauhaus, the famed German art school. While there he made works such as Orange, which continued his exploration of lithography, the technique that he felt was the most modern print medium because of its malleability, ease of artistic execution, and ability to create large and uniform editions.
Saarinen, an architect, designed this chair shortly after joining Knoll Associates in 1943. Its name expresses its purpose: "It was designed on the theory that a great number of people have never really felt comfortable and secure since they left the womb. The chair is an attempt to rectify this maladjustment in our civilization." Saarinen further explained, "There seemed to be a need for a large and really comfortable chair to take the place of the old overstuffed chair. . . . Today, more than ever before, we need to relax."
Sapper claimed that he designed the Tizio lamp because he could not find a work lamp that suited him: "I wanted a small head and long arms; I didn't want to have to clamp the lamp to the desk because it's awkward. And I wanted to be able to move it easily." The designer's dream lamp, the Tizio is an adjustable table fixture that can be moved in four directions. It swivels smoothly and can be set in any position, its balance ensured by a system of counterweights. The halogen bulb, adjustable to two different light intensities, is fed through the arm from a transformer concealed in the base. In 1972, when the Tizio lamp was first produced, the use of the arms to conduct electricity was an innovation seen in few other lamp designs.From a formal point of view, the Tizio lamp was revolutionary. Black, angled, minimalist, and mysterious, the lamp achieved its real commercial success in the early 1980s, when its sleek look met the Wall Street boom. Found in the residences of the young and successful and in the offices of executives, the lamp has become an icon of high-tech design.Tizio Table Lamp. 1971
Sarpaneva's cast-iron casserole has become an iconic work of organic design. It is one of several objects that represent his interest in multipurpose kitchenwares that could be used in the oven, on the stovetop, and at the table (sometimes also in the refrigerator). The teak handle allows one-handed transportation and, when removed, inserts into the lid for opening. Along with contemporaries such as Kaj Franck and Tappio Wirkkala, Sarpaneva achieved international fame as postwar Finnish design grew in popularity due to its clean and warm modern forms, often inspired by nature as well as traditional decorative arts.
Saulnier. Until November 10, 1910Galerie Bernheim, Paris. Purchased from Saulnier, November 10, 1910 – December 5, 1916Kunstnerforbundet, Oslo, Norway. Purchased from Bernheim-Jeune, December 5, 1916 –[Galerien Thannhauser, Berlin/Lucerne/Munich. By 1930 ?]Lennart Heijne, Stockholm. By 1954Auction sale, "Tableaux modernes," Palais Galliera, Paris, March 13, 1961Richard Feigen Gallery, New York. [1961?] - 1966Mr. and Mrs. Warren Brandt, New York. Purchased from Feigen, December 1966 - 1976The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift of Mr. and Mrs. Warren Brandt, 1976
Schendel, one of the major figures of postwar Brazilian art, was a painter, printmaker, and draftsman. A trained philosopher and poet, she used her art to address existential questions and to subvert the traditional hierarchies between artistic mediums. Particularly significant was her interest in the materiality of writing as a visual feature.Around the mid-1960s, Schendel produced a series of three-dimensional works that she thought of as ephemeral sculptures. She called them Droguinha, or "little drug," a slang expression that signifies "nothing" or "something worthless." Like this one, they are composed of knotted rice paper that Schendel intertwined by hand. The formless network of twisted cords evokes the act of weaving and can be placed horizontally or vertically. Neutralizing the tension between figure and support, material and meaning, Droguinha represents a radical artistic example of void or absence materialized as a metaphysical fullness.
Scher's groundbreaking identity and graphic campaign for New York's Public Theater set a new bar for typography of the 1990s. Using unorthodox spacing, mixing font colors and weights, and employing uncommon and often historic typefaces, Scher's text-heavy poster presents a large amount of information in a dynamic and expressive way. Fusing highbrow and lowbrow, this eclectic and irreverent approach signals Scher's affiliation with the New Wave graphic designers of the 1980s and 1990s, who rejected modernism's neat grid and cool affect. Scher's identity for the Public Theater places emphasis on the word "public" to position the institution as an affordable and accessible venue for all.
Schwitters made his collages from scraps of paper and other discarded items. He was inspired by Cubist collage and by his association with the Dada movement, with its embrace of the irrational and absurd in response to the atrocities of World War I. Schwitterss collages made after 1922 often display a rectilinear organization reflecting his ties to Russian Constructivism through his friendship with El Lissitzky.
Sean Scully's paintings depict geometric forms that are painterly rather than precise. Scully is aware that these abstract works come decades after the style was absorbed into the mainstream: "I'm not fighting for abstraction. Those battles have already been fought. I'm using those victories to make an abstraction that is, in fact, more relaxed, more open, and more confident."
Seen from slightly below, the woman in this photograph has become a monumental figure, set against the open sky and the unforgiving earth. Her gesture is full of suffering but tells us nothing specific about her life or travails. Yet the sunlight falls on the palpable flesh of a person and on the worn cloth of her shift. The picture exemplifies Lange's exceptional talent for making the leap from concrete fact to arching symbol without leaving reality behind. She made it for the Farm Security Administration, a government agency whose photographic unit was charged with documenting the plight of the rural poor in the 1930s. Her work created a lasting image of the Great Depression. It also deepened the link between the descriptive style of documentary photography and the ideal of social engagement, becoming a touchstone for photographers who felt that their work should not only record social conditions but try to persuade people to improve them.
Self Portrait at Eleven Years Old is part of a series in which the artist has used images of his childhood music idols to represent himself as a child. This image of Stevie Wonder is taken from the singer's 1977 greatest-hits triple-LP album, Looking Back. Ligon englarged the image and used a stencil to create clustered circles of black linen pulp that mimick the Benday dots of the original. In his painting, printmaking, drawing, installation, and film, Ligon has been at the forefront of a generation of artists who came to prominence in the late 1980s with conceptually based artwork that investigates race, gender, and sexuality.
Seligmann Galleries, New York. [By Spring 1944] By 1945Wright Ludington, Santa Barbara, CaliforniaMr. and Mrs. Justin K. Thannhauser, New York. Until 1955The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Purchased from Justin K. Thannhauser with Mrs. Simon Guggenheim Fund, November 1955
Seurat spent the summer of 1886 in the French coastal town of Honfleur in order to “wash the light of the studio” from his eyes, he said. He meticulously applied at least twenty-five colors here, in the form of thousands of dots carefully placed on the canvas. Long bands of clouds echo the horizon and the breakwaters on the beach. The vast sky and tranquil sea meet at the horizon line, bringing a sense of spacious light to the picture; yet from up close they also have a peculiar visual density. Seurat added the wooden frame later, hand-painting it with the same technique to add greater luminosity and suggest the extension of the image past its boundaries.
Sherman's work, with its references to cinematic stills, fashion shoots, and painting, signals the vitality of a new photographic tradition—one that has profoundly affected the vocabulary of contemporary art. In her fashion photographs, such as Untitled #123, Sherman has created the antithesis of a seductive high-fashion veneer. Her first series, commissioned by shop owner Diane Benson in 1983 for a spread in Interview magazine, was followed by pictures for designer Dorothée Bis for French Vogue in 1984 and editorial work for Harper's Bazaar in 1993, among other projects. In these pictures the artist introduces mock grotesqueries, such as false teeth, exaggerated makeup, and unflattering poses, to dent the desirability of the product by emphasizing its contrived look. Just as her Untitled Film Stills (1977–80) probed cliché-ridden female characters filched from 1950s B movies—the ingenue, the chic starlet, the flirtatious librarian—Untitled #123 parodies the mannerisms of codified female beauty championed in fashion ads by mimicking their appeal.
Showing toothsteps instead of footsteps, this poster for children and adults demonstrates the optimal choreography of tooth brushing. Circular and up-and-down motions are indicated, as well as brush width, when to apply pressure, and in what direction.
Sidney Janis Gallery, New York. By 1954Louise Reinhardt Smith / Mrs. Bertram Smith, New York. Purchased from Sidney Janis Gallery, November 3, 1954 - 1990The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift and Bequest of Mrs. Bertram Smith, 1990
Sigmar Polke's work of the 1960s exemplifies the most blatantly Pop imagery to emerge from Germany. Along with his classmates at the Dnsseldorf Academy, Gerhard Richter and Konrad Lueg, Polke founded the group Capitalist Realism, whose members focused on depictions of Germany's growing consumer culture and media-saturated society with strategies, in part, influenced by those of their American Pop counterparts. Deriving his iconography from newspaper and magazine photographs, Polke embraced the advertising and publicity commonly found in the popular press in renderings of everyday consumer items with ironic and often critical overtones. Polke's paintings of overlapping abstract patterns, photographic imagery, and loose, often cartoonish, drawing are redolent with the concepts of transference, layering, and reproduction inherent in printed art. An innovative and prolific printmaker, he has completed nearly one hundred fifty printed works, including numerous inserts for books and periodicals as well as several posters in large editions. While he simulates photographic effects by hand in his paintings, he uses photographic techniques almost exclusively in his prints, usually preferring the prosaic medium of photolithography as well as the commercial look of inexpensive papers. In 1967 Berlin publisher and gallerist RenT Block issued a portfolio of screenprints by artists associated with the Capitalist Realism group, including Polke, Richter, Lueg, K. P. Brehmer, K. H. Hödicke, and Wolf Vostell. For his contribution, his first screenprint, Polke appropriated an image from a newspaper advertisement. His choice of a 1960s country home was emblematic of his emphasis on Germany's new leisure class. He made a drawing after the ad, which was then transferred photographically to a screen for printing. He also altered the ad by adding a second screen with expressionist color strokes, creating tension between the reproduced and the autographic that underlies his iconoclastic approach to printed art.
Sigmar Polke's work of the 1960s exemplifies the most blatantly Pop imagery to emerge from Germany. Along with his classmates at the Düsseldorf Academy, Gerhard Richter and Konrad Lueg, Polke founded the group Capitalist Realism, whose members focused on depictions of Germany's growing consumer culture and media-saturated society with strategies, in part, influenced by those of their American Pop counterparts. Deriving his iconography from newspaper and magazine photographs, Polke embraced the advertising and publicity commonly found in the popular press in renderings of everyday consumer items with ironic and often critical overtones. Polke's paintings of overlapping abstract patterns, photographic imagery, and loose, often cartoonish, drawing are redolent with the concepts of transference, layering, and reproduction inherent in printed art. An innovative and prolific printmaker, he has completed nearly one hundred fifty printed works, including numerous inserts for books and periodicals as well as several posters in large editions. While he simulates photographic effects by hand in his paintings, he uses photographic techniques almost exclusively in his prints, usually preferring the prosaic medium of photolithography as well as the commercial look of inexpensive papers. In 1967 Berlin publisher and gallerist René Block issued a portfolio of screenprints by artists associated with the Capitalist Realism group, including Polke, Richter, Lueg, K. P. Brehmer, K. H. Hödicke, and Wolf Vostell. For his contribution, his first screenprint, Polke appropriated an image from a newspaper advertisement. His choice of a 1960s country home was emblematic of his emphasis on Germany's new leisure class. He made a drawing after the ad, which was then transferred photographically to a screen for printing. He also altered the ad by adding a second screen with expressionist color strokes, creating tension between the reproduced and the autographic that underlies his iconoclastic approach to printed art.
Signal Box auf dem Wolf sits among railway tracks adjacent to the eighteenth– and nineteenth–century walls of the Wolf–Gottesacker cemetery. Its concrete shell, insulated on the exterior, is wrapped with copper strips approximately eight inches wide that are twisted at certain places to admit daylight. While the copper creates a dynamic architectural skin, its functional role is to provide an electrostatic shield.A signal box is a building from which railway signals and switches are controlled. Here the designation also seems to relate subjectively to this structure's scaleless boxlike form lacking typical windows, doors, and floor divisions. As a viewer moves around it, its lustrous twisted copper facade appears to change, a characteristic observable by travelers on passing trains. Like a battery with wires radiating from it, Signal Box auf dem Wolf emanates vague danger and poetic ambiguity.
SimCity is an open-ended city-building simulation originally developed for personal computers before being adapted to multiple gaming systems (with many sequels). It makes the delicate balance of chance and regulation in urban planning into a game: players begin by mapping out a section of land by zoning regulation—residential, commercial, or industrial—and then add buildings and infrastructure systems, such as public transportation and power grids, and construct and upgrade buildings based on real-world factors such as noise, neighborhoods, and the availability of services. Unlike most games, SimCity has no goals, end point, or dominant ethos, outside of optional scenarios: players may think politically and strategically about how cities are run and societies are built, or they may induce mass chaos for their own amusement.
SIMILAR TO DESIGNING MODERN WOMEN TEXT:In the late 1920s and the 1930s, kitchens were highlighted in many modern architecture exhibitions. This poster for an exhibition in Basel is dominated by an axonometric rendering of a miniscule kitchen by Swiss architect Rudolf Preiswerk. In the exhibition, visitors could see a full-scale model of the same design, which had a footprint little more than thirty-seven square feet (3.4 square meters). In the accompanying catalogue, German design reformer Erna Meyer identified such compact and ergonomic arrangements as the most important trend in modern kitchen design.
SIMILAR TO DESIGNING MODERN WOMEN TEXT This lacquered wood screen is composed of several horizontal rows of panels joined by thin vertical metal rods. It functions not only as a movable wall that demarcates space but also as a sculpture composed of solids and voids, with an underlying influence of Cubism. It is one of the most striking and elegant creations by Gray, who was one of the leading designers working in Paris after World War I. Gray popularized and perfected the art of lacquered furnishings, and her preference for the meticulous finish of lacquer reveals a predilection for materials used in Japanese decorative arts.
Simmons expends as much energy erasing his drawings as he does constructing them. After meticulously drafting his pictures he attacks the sketch with his hands clad in thin golf gloves, which allow him to feel the surface and vary the amount of pressure needed to wipe out a drawing without completely destroying it. This wall drawing depicts a cloudburst that carries disquieting associations with war imagery while also re-creating the classic cartoon scenario in which two fighting figures clash and then disappear into an explosion. The blast "is a comedic trope for violence," says Simmons. "Cartoons are the first and earliest form of getting pleasure from a violent act."
Simonds began making his miniature Dwellings early in the 1970s, situating them in outdoor spaces in the downtown Manhattan neighborhoods of the Lower East Side and SoHo. Passersby found them on windowsills, on the brick facades of abandoned buildings, and in empty lots.  The artist imagined these to be homes for a nomadic population he called "the Little People."  He describes his Dwellings that reside indoors, such as this work, as "mixed metaphors of landscape, body, house, and growth."
Simone Collinet (a.k.a. Simone Kahn, André Breton's first wife), ParisJames Thrall Soby (1906-1979), New Canaan, Connecticut and New York, New York.  Purchased from Simone Collinet, September 1955 - 1979The Museum of Modern Art, New York. James Thrall Soby Bequest, 1979
Since 1969, Peintner, an architect, has been involved with the fine arts, mainly as a graphic artist and painter. His works from the 1970s, including Take-Off, are predominantly large-format, futuristic, and imaginary panoramas portrayed in a super-realistic way. Taking as his subject the technical explosion that fueled a contemporary civilization based on machines, Peintner has developed an ecologically based critique with the destruction of the natural environment as its central theme. In this work the superimposition of unexpected elements creates a nightmarish scene, underscoring a definite unease about the future and its associated technologies and aiming to trigger a political-ecological consciousness by way of a surrealistic, dreamlike device.
Since 1977, Mullican has been working under hypnosis, which he considers a way of breaking the patterns of everyday life, in an effort to examine his subconscious. In this altered state, Mullican becomes someone he refers to as "that person": an ageless, genderless being that is a passenger inhabiting his body. In public performances, that person makes artwork while talking to himself through a haze of hypnotically induced intoxication or psychosis. Untitled (Learning from That Person's Work: Room 1) is a large-scale manifestation of that person's activity. This disorienting, maze-like installation consists of twelve parts, in which bed sheets are covered with nine collaged ink-on-paper drawings. An accompanying video brings that person—mumbling and humming to voices he hears as the water fills and drains from a bathtub—directly into the installation. This immersive environment invites viewers to step into the wild terrain of Mullican's subconscious—and that person's reality.
Since 2005 Felton has produced a yearly report on his life's quantifiable experiences, adding an r to his last name to make it sound more "corporate." For example, his 2009 report is extensive, containing information provided by every person with whom the designer had a substantial face-to-face encounter. The information, collected via online survey, forms a database of his personality and habits, from facts (where he went, what he drank) to more subjective material (his mood). People in 179 distinct relationships with Felton, such as his dentist, ex-wife, and grill master, reported their perceptions of his state of mind: "Earnestly industrious," "Unhurried and relaxed," and "Pensive (but not in a lame way)." Felton has recently launched a website that allows anyone to collect their own personal data in a similar fashion.
Since the 1950s, Stan Brakhage, probably the most prolific and preeminent American independent filmmaker, has been pursuing what he calls the "art of vision," using processes of layering, repetition of elements, accumulations of details, juxtapositions of unrelated images, and non-narrative sequences in his experimental films. While many of his works draw from autobiographical experiences, with images of family members and events from his daily life, others are limited in scope and draw from the properties of filmmaking itself. In the 1970s Brakhage and other filmmakers, such as James Herbert and Andrew Noren, intensified their explorations of cinema's formal properties. The richest areas of investigation were two of film's basic means of expression: the apparent motility of light and the resultant texture of the transient image. Brakhage's Text of Light is the purest of the astonishing works made by these filmmakers. The spare but vital subject of the film is light, and nothing but light. To compose this "text of light," Brakhage examined light refracted through a glass ashtray. Moving and changing color, light offers the viewer a motion picture that percolates vigorously.
Since the 1960s Kusama has been making sculptures she calls "Accumulations." She affixes sewn-and-stuffed phallic protrusions to everyday objects—ladders, shoes, furniture—which she then arranges in installations, some room-sized. Violet Obsession is a monumental Accumulation: a rowboat with oars, electric purple and covered in irregular oblong forms. The effect is at once humorous and unsettling; Kusama offers a wry commentary on the phallus as a symbol of virility and power.
Since the 1960s Richard Tuttle has been constructing rudimentary, yet lyrically nuanced works that vacillate between minimalist and expressionist abstraction, and blend elements of painting, sculpture, drawing, and installation art. With an acute sensitivity toward materials and composition, Tuttle combines elements such as plywood, cardboard, string, wire, and Styrofoam with more conventional artistic mediums, creating meaning through the simplicity, subtlety, and ambiguity of his designs. The specific placement of his work within an exhibition space is often a component of his practice, further choreographing the viewer's encounter with the work. Also deeply committed to poetry and text, Tuttle regards art as a form of language. This interest led to his first artist's book in the mid-1960s. Since then he has produced an eclectic body of works in this format, ranging from small commercially fabricated booklets to deluxe editions, numbering more than one hundred in all. In the early 1970s he began making prints and has since experimented with a variety of techniques, producing more than two hundred works, many as multipart projects. Tuttle's passion for gesture and materials, particularly paper, coalesced in the production of this suite. Invited to collaborate with the innovative papermaking workshop, Dieu Donné Papermill, the artist produced translucent handmade paper watermarked with a diamond pattern. He then added a variety of delicate lines in a transfer process by laying down and removing pieces of thread he had dipped in pigment. These sheets of paper were attached to different colored mounts and encased in artist-designed frames with striped coloration. Although related, each unit differs in its marks and mood, underscored by titles referring to the times of day. Using the same deliberateness with which he designed the compositions, Tuttle makes specific recommendations as to their installation.
Since the 1980s, Luther Price has produced a prolific body of films, performances, and slides defined by a distinct vocabulary drawn from autobiography, visceral imagery, and religious iconography. In the last fifteen years he has turned to the manipulation of found film footage, testing the limits of this increasingly obsolete medium by painting, corroding, scratching, and even burying celluloid.Price began making slides as a means of obtaining "stills" from his unique handmade films. By collaging fragments of B movies, discarded Hollywood trailers, or anonymous home movies in projected compositions, Price personalizes these lost images. Sorry consists of eighty handmade slides created over seven years; the work ruminates on mortality and selfhood, pairing remnants of a found film from the 1940s about Jesus and the Crucifixion with banal images of a suburban family, combined with desiccated insects, hair, leaves, ink, and layers of tape. The slide format allows Price to project these raw materials, provoking questions about the obsolescence of analog photographic technologies.
Since the late 1940s Metinides has worked for the Mexican popular press, mainly tabloids and newspapers, photographing what has become known as the nota roja (bloody news) section. His subjects, all photographed around his native Mexico City, include violent and tragic events: car accidents, airplane crashes, murders, suicides, and natural disasters. Metinides's work resembles scenes from the movies. In this photograph, the protagonist, Adela Legarreta Rivas, has been struck by a car on Avenida Chapultepec. The artist has captured her unfortunate fate with cold objectivity, depicting her lifeless body resting on a fallen lamppost.
Since the late 1960s, Celmins has created highly detailed paintings and drawings inspired by unusual views of nature. Using a photograph as a starting point, in a palette of grays, white, and black she depicts expansive visions of oceans, deserts, and galaxies on a small scale. Her work, like that of contemporaries Chuck Close and Gerhard Richter, is well crafted and labor intensive.Despite her unapologetically traditional dedication to illusionistic representation, Celmins's works are not traditional landscapes; nor are they romantic explorations of the sublime. Her elimination of a horizon line renders her visions thoroughly modern. Without this visual guide, these realistic depictions are ambiguous from a distance, and as a result they can seem abstract. When the viewer does register the subject matter — an infinite view of the ocean or, in this case, a comet moving across a starlit galaxy — the absence of a horizon line creates a sense of floating, over the ocean or out in space. The drawing's photographic origin can no longer be traced.
Since the late 1970s Holzer has used text as her primary artistic vehicle.  Many works have had a public presence; her pithy, ironic, and often disturbing statements have been presented on posters, T-shirts, baseball caps, and a flashing screen in Times Square, New York. In the Living series, she has adopted the bronze plaque in order "to have the look of a voice of authority, of the establishment," she has said.
Since the late 1990s, Brazilian artist Ernesto Neto has created interactive, enveloping sculptural environments using translucent stretch fabric. Navedenga  is one of the earliest works in this ongoing series. Its soft, sensuous surface, curving, taut contours, and rounded appendages evoke the human body, and its material is pliant and responsive to touch, like living skin. This form and the title of the work—a Portuguese neologism created by the artist—suggest both a fantastical spacecraft (nave means "ship") and a protective womb. Aromatic cloves embedded in the structure add an olfactory dimension to the visual and tactile experience of the work. Viewers are invited to enter the works hollow chamber two at a time.
Since the mid-1970s Simmons has constructed and photographed dollhouse scenes that reflect on and critique the culture of domesticity. "It's interesting for me that a picture can be so colorful and so bright and so vivacious and so lonely at the same time," she has said. "Where is the rest of the world, where are the other people, where's the rest of the family?"
Since the mid–1970s Simmons has constructed and photographed dollhouse scenes that reflect on and critique the culture of domesticity. "It's interesting for me that a picture can be so colorful and so bright and so vivacious and so lonely at the same time," she has said. ". . . Where is the rest of the world, where are the other people, where's the rest of the family?" Simmons made these photographs in the loft she shared with her friend and fellow artist Jimmy DeSana.
Since the mid–1970s West has made collages from torn pages of fashion and pornography magazines painted over to isolate figures and objects, creating odd and awkward juxtapositions. In the mid–1990s he began to add text and personal photographs to his collages, and in Hangaround he adapts his crude aesthetic to poster design.The work's title refers to its double–sided design. One side advertises a 1997 exhibition by West in Cologne, and pictures the artist drinking a glass of wine with one of his signature Adaptive sculptures (meant to be played with by viewers) on his head. The other side features text for a 1996 exhibition in Warsaw and pictures West's half–brother, Otto Kobalek (left), with an oversized shoe—referring to a well–known photo of Kobalek interacting with a shoelike Adaptive sculpture—and writer Hermann Schürrer carrying a box-shaped Adaptive.Hangaround, however, was not produced to promote these exhibitions; West's posters are singular works of art, not mass–produced commercial pieces. Nonetheless, the artist prefers that viewers consume his posters like street ephemera, quickly and superficially, instead of contemplating and critiquing them as they would traditional artwork. Nor, West feels, do his posters require the precious, meticulous hanging art institutions grant paintings: they can be hung singly on the wall, propped up against it, or hung jam-packed among other works. Through his designs West hopes to elevate the status of the poster and undermine the sanctity of the original work of art.
Since the mid–1980s Ligon has explored issues of identity, race, and sexuality across a wide range of media, from paintings and three–dimensional objects to prints, photographs, and drawings. In this early work, Ligon incorporates his characteristic use of language, investigating and manipulating the immense power of words. Later, in the 1990s, Ligon appropriated literary texts by black authors such as Ralph Ellison and James Baldwin. In this work he refers to a comment made in the New York Times about Martin Puryear, another contemporary African American artist: "There is a consciousness we all have that he is a black American artist but I think his work is really superior and stands on its own."By stenciling this sentence in capital letters across two adjacent sheets of paper, Ligon purposefully and effectively creates disruptive breaks in the text, further disconnecting the sentence from any concrete reference to Puryear's work and forcefully pointing out the misguided practice of using race as a factor in judging the quality of a work of art. Furthermore, painted in light ochre, the words are not easily legible against the background, and only through a concerted effort can the text be read. Through such moments of discontinuity and ambiguity, Ligon has created an ironic and provocative visual statement about the critical reception of black artists and perceptions of race in general.
Siqueiros chose subjects that dealt with polemical issues of his time. Originally subtitled In Contemporary China, this work features a Chinese woman, stripped, bound, and shot in the head. A monumentalized martyr, her massive, sculptural body fills the closely cropped composition. Of Los tres grandes ("the big three" Mexican muralists)—Siqueiros, José Clemente Orozco, and Diego Rivera—Siqueiros was the youngest and the most politically radical. His artistic career was repeatedly interrupted by his fervent political activity and frequent imprisonment. He fought in the revolutionary army during the Mexican Revolution (1910–20); in the 1920s he organized a mineworkers union; in late 1936 he joined the Republicans to fight against fascist forces in the Spanish Civil War (1936–39); and, as an ardent Stalinist, he helped orchestrate an unsuccessful attempt to assassinate Leon Trotsky in 1940.
Siskind carefully framed his subjects to foreground found juxtapositions—here, that of seaweed and sand—and to emphasize the small dramas they embody. Sand fills the image, creating what the artist called “a flat unyielding space,” without markers of scale and location, on which seaweed twists, turns, and knots in calligraphic gestures. Reflecting on these photographs, Siskind explained, “For the first time in my life, subject matter, as such, had ceased to be of primary importance. Instead, I found myself involved in the relationships of these objects, so much so that these pictures turned out to be deeply moving and personal experiences.”
Size matters. As its clever marketing slogan "reduced to the max" suggests, the Smart Car has been developed to maximize the convenience, comfort, and safety of driver and passenger, while minimizing the impact on the environment. Low fuel consumption (averaging 49 miles per gallon) and eco-friendly methods of production distinguish this two-passenger car from the others on the market.The Smart Car was developed in the early 1990s at the Mercedes-Benz design studio in Irvine, California, where a team of engineers and designers, led by Gerhard Steinle, created the prototype. The design and marketing strategy was further developed with input from the Swatch watch company. Cars are sold at "Smart Centers" throughout Europe, where the brightly colored vehicles are stacked in towers like objects in a display case, clearly aimed at youthful, style-conscious consumers seeking an affordable car. The Smart Car's body reveals a clear, functional, modular design. The black frame of reinforced steel—the so-called Tridion safety cell—gives the vehicle its inherent strength. The safety cell defines the car as an integral unit, enabling the Smart Car to be conveniently short for a city car, without the front and back ends that project beyond the passenger compartment in a conventional vehicle. The steel frame is coated with powder paint, considerably less harmful to the environment than conventional painting processes. Colorful, lightweight body panels made of recycled plastic are virtually dent-resistant and rust-free. They are easily exchanged for a new set whenever the owner wants to change color. The interior is unexpectedly spacious. The engine is located below the passengers, allowing space to be conserved and seats to be given additional height. Smart Car ("Smart & Pulse" Coupé). 1998
Slightly younger than the Minimalist artists, Serra has intensified a quality of their work—a heightening of the viewer's physical self-awareness in relation to the art object. In early works of Serra's, heavy metal slabs stood in precarious balance; any close look at them was a charged affair. Intersection II, similarly, sensitizes its visitors, inviting them under and between its massive walls—which, they will find, exert an enormous psychic pressure.That pressure arises from the weight, height, and leaning angles of the walls, and from their variously dark and rusted surfaces. It is tempered by the elegant precision of their lines and the satisfying logic of their arrangement. The slopes and placements of the great steel curves produce two outer spaces that invert each other at floor and ceiling, one being wide where the other is narrow. Meanwhile the central space is a regular yet biased ellipse. Whether these spaces are experienced as intimate or threateningly claustrophobic, what Serra has said of his earlier work applies: "The viewer in part became the subject matter of the work, not the object. His perception of the piece resided in his movement through the piece, [which] became more involved with anticipation, memory, and time, and walking and looking, rather than just looking at a sculpture the way one looks at a painting."
Slow Swirl at the Edge of the Sea pictures two creatures dancing between sea and sky, surrounded by arabesques, spirals, and stripes. The forms “have no direct association with any particular visible experience, but in them one recognizes the principle and passion of organisms,” Rothko said. For him art was “an adventure into an unknown world”; like the Surrealists before him, Rothko looked inward, to his own unconscious mind, for inspiration and material for his work.
Smith began her work focusing on the human body and later added animal life as a subject. Birds, deer, mice, and, here, a cat have become symbols of the ties between the human and natural worlds. Here the use of translucent handmade paper suggests both the fragility of life and a sense of spirituality; the figures (repeated self–portraits) hold a beloved pet that has died.
Smith is a prolific visual artist as well as a poet, musician, and performer. Her characteristic intensity and expressiveness are evident in this self–portrait. "I got pissed. I gave up art yet here I am again," she has scrawled, commenting on the challenge and frustration inherent in the creative process. The singular character of her handwriting enhances the personal aspect of the composition. Smith draws her imagery of language, text, and self from myriad influences, ranging from contemporary underground music to the work of visionary eighteenthand nineteenth–century artists and authors, like William Blake and Arthur Rimbaud.
Smithson's three mirrors in a corner create a structure both lucid and elusive: as each mirror reflects the space around it, it multiplies the reflections in the other mirrors, creating an image with the symmetry of a crystal. Mirrors appear often in Smithson's art, as do fragments of the natural world—here, there are pieces of coral piled in the angle where the mirrors meet. Smithson also combined mirrors with heaps of sand, gravel, and other rocks, matching nature's brute rubble with its precise visual twin. (The delicacy of the lacy pink coral is unusual in his work.) The pairing of matter and reflection corresponds to another duality: on the one hand, unshaped shards of stone or reef; on the other, art, sculpture, and the indoor space of the gallery.One of the earthworks artists of the 1960s and 1970s, in other pieces Smithson manipulated the natural landscape, sometimes simply and temporarily, through mirrors, sometimes drastically, with a bulldozer. Corner Mirror with Coral relates to his "Non-Sites," indoor works containing substances from an outdoor site elsewhere. Both cerebral and powerfully material, his art shows a fascination with entropy, the tendency of all structures and energies to lose their integrity. In this work a perfect form—the mirrors make three sides of a cube—is made illogical and illusory, for the coral seems to float in midair.
Smith's work has a long-standing engagement with the body, calling attention to often overlooked aspects of human corporeality and sexuality. This work is composed of glass water-cooler bottles, coated with silver and etched with the names of twelve body fluids. By externalizing and labeling what is usually hidden inside the body—and allowing us to catch our own reflections in the silvered glass—this work emphasizes that we are all, like the bottles, containers for fluid. The German Gothic lettering in which the names are etched is a reference to a medieval book of hours, a Christian prayer book that provided, according to Smith, "some kind of meditation, something you could think about or believe in," for every hour of the day.
Sold through Galerie Der Sturm (Herwarth Walden), Berlin to Bernhard Koehler (1849-1927), Berlin, 1913 [1]; by inheritance to his son, Bernhard Koehler, Jr. (1882-1964), Berlin, 1927 [2]. Acquired by Kurt Feldhäusser (1905-1945), Berlin, 1937 [3]; by inheritance to Marie L. Feldhäusser (1876-1967), his mother, Kirchberg and Brooklyn, 1945; sold through Weyhe Gallery, New York to The Museum of Modern Art, New York, May 26, 1949 (Acquired through the Lillie P. Bliss Bequest) [4].[1] Included in the exhibition Erster Deutscher Herbstsalon, Galerie Der Sturm, Berlin, September 20-December 1, no. 76 (Bild 2 Christus gewidmet). See Karoline Hille, Marc Chagall und das deutsche Publikum, Cologne et a.: Böhlau, 2005, pp. 24-32. Collectors Records, 20 [Kurt Feldhäusser]. The Museum of Modern Art Archives. [2] Included in the exhibition Marc Chagall, Kunsthalle Basel, November 4-December 3, 1933, no. 16 (Crucifixion).[3] Collectors Records, 20 [Kurt Feldhäusser]. The Museum of Modern Art Archives.[4] Collection files, Department of Painting and Sculpture, The Museum of Modern Art, New York.
Sold through Villa Grisebach, Berlin, to Galerie Pels-Leusden, Berlin, May, 1994 (lot 37); sold to Jan A. Ahlers, Herford, Germany; sold through Mitchell-Innis and Nash, New York, 2001 to The Museum of Modern Art, New York
Solitary figures are a recurring motif in Doig's work. Here an anonymous man with a pink umbrella walks down a street accompanied only by the shadow he casts. This quiet urban moment could almost be a scene painted by Edward Hopper, with its lone, cipherlike figure and late afternoon sunlight. Art historian Bernhard Schwenk has written that in engaging with Doig's paintings viewers "become tourists in the reaches of their own inner worlds."However, the title of this painting suggests that the wall is as important a protagonist as the figure. Lapeyrouse Cemetery is an eighteenth-century burial ground in Port of Spain, Trinidad, named after the settler who established the first sugar estate on the island. The crumbling wall is a visual reminder of the multilayered past of this former British colony, which relied heavily on slave labor. The wall may represent a personal site of memory as well: a transnational artist, Doig was born in Scotland, lived in Trinidad for six years as a small child, passed his adolescence in rural Quebec, spent much of his adult life in London, and returned to Trinidad in 2002, where he continues to live today. Although Doig often creates fictive landscapes, the wall imparts a sense of place and history to this work. While the figure moves forward in the painting, in many ways we, the viewers, are carried back in time.
Some people find their shape and the quality of their light unpleasant, and some question their environmental advantage, but low-energy lightbulbs are a necessary innovation. Their presence in our lives, explain the Plumen's designer, "should be seen as an advantage to be celebrated by drawing, sculpting, or scrawling in the air with light. The bulbs should not be viewed as an afterthought but instead as a centerpiece. Then people might begin to buy these bulbs through genuine desire rather than mere moral obligation." Production of the Plumen began in 2011, and the bulbs are sold in Europe and the United States.
Some scholars believe the @ symbol dates back to the sixth century, when scribes simplified the Latin word ad (at) by exaggerating the upstroke of the letter d and curving it over the a. Others believe that the symbol had its genesis in sixteenth-century Venetian trade as an abbreviation for amphora, a standard-size terra-cotta vessel employed by merchants that became a unit of measure. The word à in Norman French might be another source for @, which was adopted in northern Europe to mean "each at," indicating price, its accent eventually becoming @'s curl. Since the nineteenth century, @ has appeared on standard typewriter and computer keyboards as the "commercial a," used, until fairly recently, almost exclusively by accountants to mean "at the rate of." In 1967, Tomlinson joined the technology company Bolt Beranek and Newman, where in 1971 he created the world's first e-mail system for the United States government's Advanced Research Projects Agency Networks (ARPAnet). He adopted @ as a stand-in for the long and convoluted programming language indicating a message's destination. This was a design decision of extraordinary elegance and economy—repurposing an existing, available, and underutilized symbol to adapt the standard keyboard to a revolutionary new technology. The sign's new function is in keeping with its origins: in computer language, as in financial transactions, @ designates a relationship between two entities, establishing a link based on objective and measurable rules. The sign is now part of everyday life all over the world, demonstrated by the affectionate names it has in different cultures. Germans, Poles, and South Africans call @ "monkey's tail," Chinese see a little mouse, and Italians and French a snail. The Finnish know it as the miukumauku, the "sign of the meow," because it resembles a curled-up sleeping cat.
South African artist Marlene Dumas based the twenty–four portraits comprising Chlorosis on Polaroid snapshots of people she knows and on newspaper clippings of strangers. Thin, exquisite washes of color suggest apparitions or psychic projections of internal states. The title of the work comes from the Greek word for light green, and describes an anemic disease marked by a characteristic green skin tone. Sometimes referred to as the virgin's disease, chlorosis was considered a sickness caused by the intense suffering provoked by unrequited love.
Spero has long been involved with art that engages the subject of injustice.  In the 1970s, upon becoming active in the feminist movement, she began a sustained exploration of the place of women in history.  This scroll–like work presents a kind of narrative, yet its structure acknowledges the fragmented nature of the historical record as her texts and imagery travel between epochs and continents, presenting a testimony that mutates across time and place.
Staatliches Museum Saarbrücken; removed as “degenerate art” by the Reich Ministry for Public Enlightenment and Propaganda, 1937 [1]; on consignment to Karl Buchholz, Berlin; to Buchholz Gallery (Curt Valentin), New York; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1949.[1] EK no. 6862: Bildnis Maria Orska
Stacking Dinnerware is one of the most successful product designs of the Massimo and Lella Vignelli design studio. It takes advantage of the lightness and flexibility of melamine resin and can be stored as a compact group. The manufacturer Heller introduced the award-winning design to America in a range of colors. Massimo Vignelli is an architect-designer known for his graphic design, including the 1966–70 subway map and sign system for the New York Metropolitan Transit Authority. After studying in Milan and Venice, he and his wife, Lella, also an architect, established the Vignelli Office of Design and Architecture, followed by Vignelli Associates in 1971.
Städtisches Kunsthaus, Bielefeld [1]; removed as "degenerate art" by the Reich Ministry for Public Enlightenment and Propaganda, Berlin, 1937 [2]. To Buchholz Gallery (Curt Valentin), New York; sold to Philip L. Goodwin, New York; given to The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1949.[1] Collection stamp on verso.[2] Not on "Harry Fischer list."
Staeck, a German graphic designer, was the preeminent practitioner of political montage in Europe in the 1960s and a seminal figure in the early agitprop movement that took hold in the former Communist bloc. His strikingly austere artwork includes postcards, stickers, and flyers addressing myriad civic themes, including peace, environmentalism, poverty, political hypocrisy, and freedom of speech. In Heidelberg, Staeck, along with partner Gerhard Steidl, established Edition Staeck, and together they mounted countless exhibitions of their work in rented commercial spaces, as mail art, and via other unconventional curatorial avenues.Staeck's 1980 lithograph has one caption: "Und neues Leben Blüht aus den Ruinen" (And new life flowers from the ruins), a line from Friedrich von Schiller's poem "Das Lied von der Glocke." A knot of weaving autobahns in black and white exists in dreary contrast to the hopeful green tree that emerges from it. The red title at the bottom is emblematic of Staeck's minimal use of text. The angst and unrest of post–World War II Germany set the stage for Staeck's messages, though his optimism stood in stark counterpoint to the cynicism of most of his contemporaries. Through photomontage Staeck demonstrates that the Cold War German landscape could be fertile ground for new life and new growth.
Standardization, objectivity, and impersonal form characterized both modernist architecture and graphic design. For the exhibition Wohnung und Werkraum  (Living and work space) in Breslau, Molzahn designed an integrated campaign in which different types of printed matter—posters, brochures, letterheads, labels, stamps, etc.—affirmed the overriding identity of the event. Of particular note was his synthesis of typography and photomontage. "Today we can express ourselves better and more quickly with the help of photography than by the laborious means of speech or writing," wrote Tschichold. "It is precisely the contrast between the apparent three dimensions of photography and the plane form of type that gives our typography its strength."
Starck has produced many designs, often for the kitchen, that are unexpected or subversive. He has collaborated with Alessi since 1986. CEO Alberto Alessi describes the so-called designer terrible: "He is a living example of my dream: A true work of design must move people, convey feelings, bring back memories, surprise, transgress."
Starowieyski raises the emotional temperature with a scorching color palette. The unexpected imagery of an empty dress morphing into an armchair blends fantasy and personal identity with the idea of social repression and the transference of sexual desire.
Starting in the mid-1960s Wroclaw became a center for Poland's theatrical and artistic avant-garde. Teatr STU was one of the most significant experimental theater groups in the country, and legendary figures Tadeusz Kantor and Andrzej Wajda honed their directing skills there. For STU's production of Exodus, Sawka, a young art student, created this metaphorical image of an isolated figure as a burnt match. Several years later he moved to New York, where his practice developed to include set designs on budgets from one hundred to nearly four million dollars, for musicians such as the Grateful Dead and Steve Winwood.
Stations comprises five video projections, each displaying a nude figure suspended in water, accompanied by a lulling soundtrack of underwater gurgles and murmurs. Floating heads-down, the figures drift slowly out of the image frames. Their reflections in the polished slabs of granite placed at the foot of each screen give the impression of figures swimming in pools of black liquid. The thirteenth-century Persian poet Jahal al-Din Rumi, a favorite author of the artist, proclaimed: “With every moment a world is born and dies. And know that for you, with every moment comes death and renewal.” Likewise, in Stations there is no ending or beginning—every instant is a meditation on the continual cycles of life, death, and rebirth.
Stensrud, Oslo; sold through Kornfeld & Klipstein, Bern, sale #121 (lot #747) to Carl Schuster, Woodstock, New York, June 11, 1966. Heinz Berggruen/Contemporary Art Establishment, Zurich; sold to The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1968.
Steven Holl's Gymnasium Bridge was one of six proposals commissioned by the Wave Hill Center for a bridge between New York's impoverished South Bronx neighborhoods and the parkland of Randall's Island. The project, for four intersecting and overlapping bridges containing usable space as well as acting as passageways, was intended to foster economic development: in Holl's scheme, community members would earn incomes by working on organized recreational activities housed in the bridges—rowing, ice skating, basketball, boxing, and so on—and these activities would in turn attract visitors and custom to the area. Thus the Gymnasium Bridge would not only serve a physical purpose but act as "a vehicle from which destitute persons can reenter society." This drawing shows three views of the bridge: a plan of the upper level of the main span, a plan of the lower level of all four bridges, and an exterior perspective. The plan of the lower level doubles as a site plan and is continuous with the exterior perspective, while the plan of the upper level is isolated at the top of the drawing. The predominance of the site plan reflects Holl's belief that "architecture and site should have an experiential connection, a metaphysical link, a poetic link." The darkness of the site contrasts with the luminosity of the structure, casting the bridge as a beacon of hope in the community. This was an early project for Holl. Drawing has always been an important tool in his conception and development of his projects; his renderings, often in watercolor, illustrate his understanding of how the senses perceive architectural spaces. Phenomenology has made appearances in Holl's writings, and as a result of his focus on the human relationship to architecture, his practice is often linked to this philosophical study of reality as it is understood and experienced by the human consciousness.
Still life was an important genre to Cézanne, who made approximately two hundred such paintings over the course of four decades. In Still Life with Fruit Dish he created a shallow, compressed space that flattens the sculptural volumes of dish, glass, and fruit. This painting was a prized possession of the artist Paul Gauguin, who described the picture as "an exceptional pearl, the apple of my eye." It was only when he needed money for medical care that Gauguin unhappily parted with it.
Still Life with Apples demonstrates that the genre of still life can be a vehicle for faithfully representing not only objects but also the appearance of light and space. Painting from nature is not copying the object, Cézanne wrote, it is realizing ones sensations. He consistently drew attention to the quality of the paint and canvasnever aiming for illusion. For example, the edges of the fruit in the bowl are undefined and appear to shift. Rules of perspective, too, are broken; the right corner of the table tilts forward and is not aligned with the left side. Some areas of canvas are left bare, and others, like the drape of the tablecloth, appear unfinished. Still Life with Apples is more than an imitation of lifeit is an exploration of seeing and the very nature of painting.
Still Life with Tenora is a consummate example of Braque's papier collé (literally, pasted paper) style. The bold geometric fragments of contrasting types of paper interlaced with the figurative motifs drawn in charcoal evoke the structure of a fugue, in which two distinct melodies intertwine in a rich, sonorous composition, each acting as a foil to the other's reality.The invention of the papier collé in 1912 by Braque and Pablo Picasso introduced a revolution in Western painting, whose repercussions are still being felt today. By pasting fragments of paper (newspaper, wallpaper, and wood-grained paper) onto their still-life compositions, they introduced  real materials and textures into an art hitherto based on illusionistic renderings.The significance of this breakthrough cannot be overestimated because through this technique these artists declared the autonomy of the painted or drawn image, and radically severed it from any attempt at representation. The fragments attached to the picture's surface rarely followed the contours or silhouettes of the drawn motifs (glasses, bottles, or musical instruments), but, paradoxically, contradicted them. Thus, they countered the conventional devices of modeling and depth perspective, and drew attention to the absolute flatness of the two-dimensional plane.
Stop Traveler (Siste Viator) was conceived for the Sonsbeek international sculpture exhibition, held in Arnhem, The Netherlands, the site of one of World War II's most important battles. Intended as a "literary memorial" to British, Dutch, Polish, and German war casualties, this project features reprints of books and book covers that could have been read by those killed in battle. For each language, one book was reproduced entirely, while the other copies contain blank pages only. The artist inserted ex libris bookplates naming individual casualties.
Striding forward in tandem and bearing elongated red banners beneath the slogan "Proletarians of the World, Unite!" two nudes of epic scale merge with a whirling composition, communicating nervous energy and urgency. Naked and classicized, the figures recall Cézanne's various Bathers paintings, but they also symbolize the universality of the revolutionary impulse. This poster is one of the most memorable images associated with the Hungarian Revolution of 1919. After the fall of the Hungarian Soviet Republic, Pór spent more than a decade as a political refugee before returning to Hungary once a Communist regime was established following World War II.
Study for Columbus and Isabella I evinces Bryan Hunt's interest in specific historical events and, more widely, in the idea of exploration and new discovery. It is one of several drawings related to a sculpture of the same name that was conceived by the artist while he was living and working in Mojacar, Spain. The abstracted forms are those of the great Spanish explorer, seen on the left, and his royal patron, the queen.
Stupía's work represents a tradition of draftmanship in Argentina with precedents such as artists León Ferrari (born 1920) and Luis Felipe Noé (born 1933). This drawing is a landmark in Stupía's work of the mid–1980s, when his stylistic approach was unanimously celebrated in Argentina. One of his typical imaginary landscapes, it features an extremely controlled and complex composition in which the artist obsessively traced linear contours to create an almost imperceptible weblike structure.  Stupía's interest in Oriental calligraphy is evident in this labyrinthine landscape's emphasis on gestural lines and the materiality and liquidity of ink.
Suburban Metro Lines reflects the artist's sense of transiency as someone who divides his time—and his identity—between South Africa and the Netherlands. Incorporating a map of sub-Saharan Africa, the work suggests the arbitrary nature of national and community borders in that region. Langa works in photography, video, painting, and drawing as well as installations with found materials including cement bags, yarn, tape, and garbage bags.
Sundial belongs to Clark's Animals series, begun in 1960—a group of metal sculptures whose forms can be endlessly modified. The works in this series are flat, curving structures that fold in different ways along a spine–like axis. Capable of many variations in form, they can also be reduced to a flat plane. Sundial was conceived to invite the spectator to modify its foldable geometric shapes.
Super Clamp has screw-operated jaws that can be fixed to poles, trees, and shelves and can hold anything from lights and props to screens. It has an ergonomic lever to securely lock the clamping position as well as a secondary safety-lock system that holds items in place even if the screw lock loosens or comes undone.
Susan Rothenberg emerged in the mid-1970s as an essential link between the abstract and Minimalist painting of the 1950s and 1960s and the new figuration and expressionism that would emerge in the next two decades. Her artistic abilities had always been encouraged and, at an early age, she took art classes at the local museum in Buffalo, New York. She later studied sculpture and painting at Cornell University. Moving to New York City in 1969, Rothenberg became part of SoHo's community of artists, and occasionally worked as a part-time performer in productions by artist Joan Jonas. In 1973 she began making paintings of a single horse, a form that would occupy her for the next several years and become an early hallmark of her work. Progressively, she began to disassemble the horse image, depicting only parts of its anatomy. She eventually shifted her focus to disembodied aspects of the human figure. With loosely depicted forms floating unanchored on dark grounds, her work continues to navigate between figuration and abstraction, and she remains a creator of mysterious and ambiguous images.Rothenberg pursued similar concerns in printmaking, an activity she began in the late 1970s. Since that time, she has made approximately seventy prints, including lithographs, screenprints, woodcuts, and intaglios. She feels most comfortable working in a reductive way, erasing and scraping to create an image from a black ground. Mezzotint, the intaglio technique used in Boneman, is particularly suited to this method of working. Although she occasionally opts for color, her work is most often executed in a palette of black, white, and gray. In Boneman, a mysterious drumming figure seems to emerge from a dreamlike darkness. Color is provided only by her choice of a wood veneer paper on which she has printed this monochromatic image.
[Tadao] Ando's drawings are like a hieroglyphic map that if read properly does not lead one to the buried treasure but becomes the treasure itself. -Peter Eisenman The Chikatsu-Asuka Historical Museum, Osaka, designed by Tadao Ando, is dedicated to exhibiting and researching artifacts of the Kofun and Asuka periods of Japanese culture, from the fourth to the seventh century A.D. The museum is located in a region containing over 200 burial mounds, or kofun, from that era, and there are a number of archaeological sites in the building's immediate neighborhood, which has been designated a historical park. As far as possible, then, Ando's design preserves the park's topography, altering it minimally through the use of architectural elements that serve more than one function: the building's roof doubles as sets of stairs leading up to an observation tower and plaza, together constituting stepped viewing platforms from which to look at the tombs in their natural surroundings. The concept focuses, Ando has said, "on architecture's power to produce a new landscape": like a large berm, the museum becomes an integral part of the landscape that the museum also serves to exhibit. Inside the building, objects excavated from the burial mounds are exhibited in a darkened interior, evoking the interiors of the tombs in which they were discovered. Ando's use of concrete as a construction material recalls the work of Le Corbusier and Louis Kahn, his architectural mentors, yet he combines this preference with a Japanese aesthetic of contrast-light and dark, interior and exterior, enclosed and expansive, hard and soft, nature and city, east and west. The subtle interplay of these opposites in Ando's buildings produces rich environments, and some of this is captured in the drawing: the hard-edged graphite lines marking the imposed, man-made structure offer a counterpoint to the softer shades of color depicting the enveloping landscape that Ando seeks to echo.
Taller than a utilitarian table, this gold cube with rounded corners suggests a sacred site for contemplation or an altar involved in some ancient ritual. Born in Detroit, James Lee Byars lived for many years in Japan, Venice, and the United States before his death in Egypt, in 1997. Devoted to the confluence of East and West and their shared symbolism, his work is often based on simple forms—circles, spheres, cylinders, and pyramids.
Teams from Pentagram and Red Hat created this icon-driven interface in which collaboration is the core of the user experience. The laptop encourages social interaction, and most activities center on the creation of an object—a drawing, a song, a story, a game—and on "real-world metaphors" such as chatting, sharing, and gathering. All the laptops are connected in a wireless network, both to the web and to one another. The more laptops are connected, the more powerful the network becomes. "By exploiting this connectivity within the community, among people and their activities," the designers say, "One Laptop per Child makes use of what people already know in order to make connections to new knowledge."
Techniques and strategies of commercial printing are fundamental to the visual language of Roy Lichtenstein's celebrated Pop style. The Benday dots and regularized stripes he used for tone, the clarifying black outlines, the flat areas of bold primary color, and the simplification and schematization of his compositions are all elements embraced by consumer culture to create the inescapable printed imagery aimed at mass audiences. The subject matter that first brought Lichtenstein's work to public attention was appropriated from comic strips, but his later themes owed their visual syntax to themes from "high" culture, particularly the history of modern art. Illustrated here are examples of his interpretations of German Expressionism and Art Deco, as well as the time-honored motif of landscape in art. In every case, his sense of irony is coupled with a strikingly positive spirit. Printmaking was integral to Lichtenstein's practice from the time he was a student, and in the early 1950s he regularly entered regional print exhibitions. But it was his Pop style that attracted the professional workshops established in the 1960s, and his work was instrumental in the renaissance of American printmaking at that time. His mechanized aesthetic was particularly in keeping with the technical expertise offered at Gemini G.E.L., and his early collaborations there were undertaken with Kenneth Tyler, a printer he continued to work with at Tyler Graphics. Donald Saff, then of Graphicstudio, was another technical wizard who urged Lichtenstein to make prints. In all he created some three hundred fifty printed images, primarily with a series format that echoed his work in painting. In addition to traditional prints, he created ephemeral projects in the spirit of Pop art, like wallpaper, gift wrap, and paper plates, and also made many benefit prints and posters for social and political causes.
Techniques and strategies of commercial printing are fundamental to the visual language of Roy Lichtenstein's celebrated Pop style. The Benday dots and regularized stripes he used for tone, the clarifying black outlines, the flat areas of bold primary color, and the simplification and schematization of his compositions are all elements embraced by consumer culture to create the inescapable printed imagery aimed at mass audiences. The subject matter that first brought Lichtenstein's work to public attention was appropriated from comic strips, but his later themes owed their visual syntax to themes from "high" culture, particularly the history of modern art...like German Expressionism and Art Deco, as well as the time-honored motif of landscape in art. In every case, his sense of irony is coupled with a strikingly positive spirit. Printmaking was integral to Lichtenstein's practice from the time he was a student, and in the early 1950s he regularly entered regional print exhibitions. But it was his Pop style that attracted the professional workshops established in the 1960s, and his work was instrumental in the renaissance of American printmaking at that time. His mechanized aesthetic was particularly in keeping with the technical expertise offered at Gemini G.E.L., and his early collaborations there were undertaken with Kenneth Tyler, a printer he continued to work with at Tyler Graphics. Donald Saff, then of Graphicstudio, was another technical wizard who urged Lichtenstein to make prints. In all he created some three hundred fifty printed images, primarily with a series format that echoed his work in painting. In addition to traditional prints, he created ephemeral projects in the spirit of Pop art, like wallpaper, gift wrap, and paper plates, and also made many benefit prints and posters for social and political causes.
Techniques and strategies of commercial printing are fundamental to the visual language of Roy Lichtenstein's celebrated Pop style. The Benday dots and regularized stripes he used for tone, the clarifying black outlines, the flat areas of bold primary color, and the simplification and schematization of his compositions are all elements embraced by consumer culture to create the inescapable printed imagery aimed at mass audiences. The subject matter that first brought Lichtenstein's work to public attention was appropriated from comic strips, but his later themes owed their visual syntax to themes from "high" culture, particularly the history of modern art...like German Expressionism and Art Deco, as well as the time-honored motif of landscape in art. In every case, his sense of irony is coupled with a strikingly positive spirit. Printmaking was integral to Lichtenstein's practice from the time he was a student, and in the early 1950s he regularly entered regional print exhibitions. But it was his Pop style that attracted the professional workshops established in the 1960s, and his work was instrumental in the renaissance of American printmaking at that time. His mechanized aesthetic was particularly in keeping with the technical expertise offered at Gemini G.E.L., and his early collaborations there were undertaken with Kenneth Tyler, a printer he continued to work with at Tyler Graphics. Donald Saff, then of Graphicstudio, was another technical wizard who urged Lichtenstein to make prints. In all he created some three hundred fifty printed images, primarily with a series format that echoed his work in painting. In addition to traditional prints, he created ephemeral projects in the spirit of Pop art, like wallpaper, gift wrap, and paper plates, and also made many benefit prints and posters for social and political causes.Originally from TextEntryID 69317 (TextTypeID 127)remains unauthorized pending approval of edited text in second paragraph
Techniques and strategies of commercial printing are fundamental to the visual language of Roy Lichtenstein's celebrated Pop style. The Benday dots and regularized stripes he used for tone, the clarifying black outlines, the flat areas of bold primary color, and the simplification and schematization of his compositions are all elements embraced by consumer culture to create the inescapable printed imagery aimed at mass audiences. The subject matter that first brought Lichtenstein's work to public attention was appropriated from comic strips, but his later themes owed their visual syntax to themes from "high" culture, particularly the history of modern art...like German Expressionism and Art Deco, as well as the time-honored motif of landscape in art. In every case, his sense of irony is coupled with a strikingly positive spirit.Printmaking was integral to Lichtenstein's practice from the time he was a student, and in the early 1950s he regularly entered regional print exhibitions. But it was his Pop style that attracted the professional workshops established in the 1960s, and his work was instrumental in the renaissance of American printmaking at that time. His mechanized aesthetic was particularly in keeping with the technical expertise offered at Gemini G.E.L., and his early collaborations there were undertaken with Kenneth Tyler, a printer he continued to work with at Tyler Graphics. Donald Saff, then of Graphicstudio, was another technical wizard who urged Lichtenstein to make prints. In all he created some three hundred fifty printed images, primarily with a series format that echoed his work in painting. In addition to traditional prints, he created ephemeral projects in the spirit of Pop art, like wallpaper, gift wrap, and paper plates, and also made many benefit prints and posters for social and political causes.Originally from TextEntryID 69560 (TextTypeID 127)removed the second paragraph:The subject matter that first brought Lichtenstein's work to public attention was appropriated from comic strips, but his later themes owed their visual syntax to themes from "high" culture, particularly the history of modern art. Illustrated here are examples of his interpretations of German Expressionism and Art Deco, as well as the time-honored motif of landscape in art. In every case, his sense of irony is coupled with a strikingly positive spirit.
Techniques and strategies of commercial printing are fundamental to the visual language of Roy Lichtenstein's celebrated Pop style. The Benday dots and regularized stripes he used for tone, the clarifying black outlines, the flat areas of bold primary color, and the simplification and schematization of his compositions are all elements embraced by consumer culture to create the inescapable printed imagery aimed at mass audiences. The subject matter that first brought Lichtenstein's work to public attention was appropriated from comic strips, but his later themes owed their visual syntax to themes from "high" culture, particularly the history of modern art...like German Expressionism and Art Deco, as well as the time-honored motif of landscape in art. In every case, his sense of irony is coupled with a strikingly positive spirit.Printmaking was integral to Lichtenstein's practice from the time he was a student, and in the early 1950s he regularly entered regional print exhibitions. But it was his Pop style that attracted the professional workshops established in the 1960s, and his work was instrumental in the renaissance of American printmaking at that time. His mechanized aesthetic was particularly in keeping with the technical expertise offered at Gemini G.E.L., and his early collaborations there were undertaken with Kenneth Tyler, a printer he continued to work with at Tyler Graphics. Donald Saff, then of Graphicstudio, was another technical wizard who urged Lichtenstein to make prints. In all he created some three hundred fifty printed images, primarily with a series format that echoed his work in painting. In addition to traditional prints, he created ephemeral projects in the spirit of Pop art, like wallpaper, gift wrap, and paper plates, and also made many benefit prints and posters for social and political causes.Originally from TextEntryID 69561 (TextTypeID 127)removed the second paragraph:The subject matter that first brought Lichtenstein's work to public attention was appropriated from comic strips, but his later themes owed their visual syntax to themes from "high" culture, particularly the history of modern art. Illustrated here are examples of his interpretations of German Expressionism and Art Deco, as well as the time-honored motif of landscape in art. In every case, his sense of irony is coupled with a strikingly positive spirit.
Techniques and strategies of commercial printing are fundamental to the visual language of Roy Lichtenstein's celebrated Pop style. The Benday dots and regularized stripes he used for tone, the clarifying black outlines, the flat areas of bold primary color, and the simplification and schematization of his compositions are all elements embraced by consumer culture to create the inescapable printed imagery aimed at mass audiences. The subject matter that first brought Lichtenstein's work to public attention was appropriated from comic strips, but his later themes owed their visual syntax to themes from "high" culture, particularly the history of modern art...like German Expressionism and Art Deco, as well as the time-honored motif of landscape in art. In every case, his sense of irony is coupled with a strikingly positive spirit.Printmaking was integral to Lichtenstein's practice from the time he was a student, and in the early 1950s he regularly entered regional print exhibitions. But it was his Pop style that attracted the professional workshops established in the 1960s, and his work was instrumental in the renaissance of American printmaking at that time. His mechanized aesthetic was particularly in keeping with the technical expertise offered at Gemini G.E.L., and his early collaborations there were undertaken with Kenneth Tyler, a printer he continued to work with at Tyler Graphics. Donald Saff, then of Graphicstudio, was another technical wizard who urged Lichtenstein to make prints. In all he created some three hundred fifty printed images, primarily with a series format that echoed his work in painting. In addition to traditional prints, he created ephemeral projects in the spirit of Pop art, like wallpaper, gift wrap, and paper plates, and also made many benefit prints and posters for social and political causes.Originally from TextEntryID 69575 (TextTypeID 127)removed the second paragraph:The subject matter that first brought Lichtenstein's work to public attention was appropriated from comic strips, but his later themes owed their visual syntax to themes from "high" culture, particularly the history of modern art. Illustrated here are examples of his interpretations of German Expressionism and Art Deco, as well as the time-honored motif of landscape in art. In every case, his sense of irony is coupled with a strikingly positive spirit.
Techniques and strategies of commercial printing are fundamental to the visual language of Roy Lichtenstein's celebrated Pop style. The Benday dots and regularized stripes he used for tone, the clarifying black outlines, the flat areas of bold primary color, and the simplification and schematization of his compositions are all elements embraced by consumer culture to create the inescapable printed imagery aimed at mass audiences. The subject matter that first brought Lichtenstein's work to public attention was appropriated from comic strips, but his later themes owed their visual syntax to themes from "high" culture, particularly the history of modern art...like Germany Expressionism and Art Deco, as well as the time-honored motif of landscape in art. In every case, his sense of irony is coupled with a strikingly positive spirit. Printmaking was integral to Lichtenstein's practice from the time he was a student, and in the early 1950s he regularly entered regional print exhibitions. But it was his Pop style that attracted the professional workshops established in the 1960s, and his work was instrumental in the renaissance of American printmaking at that time. His mechanized aesthetic was particularly in keeping with the technical expertise offered at Gemini G.E.L., and his early collaborations there were undertaken with Kenneth Tyler, a printer he continued to work with at Tyler Graphics. Donald Saff, then of Graphicstudio, was another technical wizard who urged Lichtenstein to make prints. In all he created some three hundred fifty printed images, primarily with a series format that echoed his work in painting. In addition to traditional prints, he created ephemeral projects in the spirit of Pop art, like wallpaper, gift wrap, and paper plates, and also made many benefit prints and posters for social and political causes.
Telepresence, currently used for military and exploratory purposes, is the experience of being present at a real (nonvirtual) location, remote from ones own physical position. Auger and Loizeau's project explores the application of telepresence in a social context. Social Telepresence consists of a small camera and a binaural microphone attached to the remote, "rented" body or moving object. The user receives images from the camera through a wireless connection and views them with a set of TV glasses. His or her body becomes a host; its senses are replaced by those of the remote body, translated in real time. Use of this remote body could allow, for example, a shy person to visit a sex club or go on a blind date, businesspeople to attend meetings at a distance, and an immobile person to take a walk.
Template Gothic is an important milestone in the history of digital fonts because of its popularity but also because of the designer's unique voice and the vernacular source he used as inspiration—a sign posted in his neighborhood laundromat. Licensed and promoted by Emigre, Inc., Template Gothic was ubiquitous by the end of the 1990s, representing the aesthetic of imperfection beloved by certain designers during the grunge era. Deck, like other typographers of the time, spoke of his desire to abandon the perfection of modernist letterforms: "I was inspired to design a face that looked as if it had suffered the distortive ravages of photomechanical reproduction." His typeface reflects "more truly the imperfect language of an imperfect world, inhabited by imperfect beings."
TEMPT1, a Los Angeles-based graffiti artist and activist, was diagnosed with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) in 2003, and the disease soon left him entirely paralyzed except for his eyes. The team that developed EyeWriter equipped a pair of eyeglasses with eye-tracking technology and custom software that could capture TEMPT1's eye movements. From his hospital room, wirelessly connected to a laptop and laser-tagging apparatus installed in downtown LA, the artist could draw his tag and have it projected on buildings at a superhuman scale in real time, so viewers could see the glowing graffiti as they were created. The EyeWriter research project was a collaboration among TEMPT1, the members of Free Art & Technology (FAT) lab, the openFrameworks community, and Graffiti Research Lab (GRL), with support from the Ebeling Group production company, the Not Impossible Foundation, and the Design and Technology program at Parsons The New School for Design, New York.
Tenori-on (Japanese for "sound in your palm") is a handheld step sequencer that creates and displays synthesized music and light patterns, fusing the sequential and layering logic of electronic music with dynamic visual display. When pressed, each LED pixel emits a preprogrammed sound. Two speakers are located at the top of the screen, and buttons that determine the type of sound and beats per minute are arranged along the sides. Users program a specific sequence of sounds, which are activated with corresponding bursts of light. These patterns can be stored in the device and used during performance.
Thadée Natanson, Paris. Until 1908Sale, Collection Thadée Natanson, Hôtel Drouot, Paris, June 13, 1908Bernheim-Jeune, Paris. Purchased from Natanson sale, June 1908Jacques-Emile Blanche (1861-1942), ParisParis art marketJohn Hay Whitney, New York. By 1961 - 1983The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Estate of John Hay Whitney, 1983
The Accessible Icon Project redesigns the decades- old International Symbol of Access. Unlike the previous icon, in which the wheelchair user looks passive and ready to be pushed to a destination, (the new one shows a person in forward motion—(a “driver” in charge of his or her own fate. The designers introduced their version in a street-art campaign, printing it on stickers and pasting it( over older accessibility signs in the Boston area. The redesign has now been officially adopted by some businesses and institutions, and even by such cities as Maiden and Burlington, Massachusetts, and El Paso and Austin, Texas. New York City uses a modified version, with the figure hailing a cab, to denote its accessible taxis.
The aim of his large Water Lilies paintings, Monet said, was to supply "the illusion of an endless whole, of water without horizon or bank." While his garden in Giverny, his water-lily pond, and the sky above are the subjects of this monumental triptych, his representation of them can be seen to verge toward abstraction. In the attempt to capture the constantly changing qualities of natural light and color, spatial cues all but dissolve; above and below, near and far, water and sky all commingle. In his enveloping, large-scale canvases Monet sought to create "the refuge of a peaceful meditation in the center of a flowering aquarium."
The appearance of most audio equipment is seldom given thoughtful attention, and its impact on the domestic interior is frequently ignored. For this turntable, Jensen applied strict aesthetic criteria, emphasizing a horizontal profile and the clarity of basic geometric forms. Jensen, who has designed products for Bang & Olufsen since the late 1960s, dislikes conventional dials and knobs, and frequently reinvents the way in which controls appear and are used. His turntables are distinguished by an innovative use of a tone arm that moves tangentially, rather than diagonally, over the plane of the record. The Danish manufacturer Bang & Olufsen, established in the late 1920s, has produced radios, phonographs, televisions, VCRs, and acoustic components-all sleek, well-detailed appliances intended to reform the way electronic equipment looks and even functions, as well as how the user interacts with it. Interestingly, Bang & Olufsen designers often mask the function of an object in favor of a handsome appearance that highlights the quality of its materials.
The architectural visions of Raimund Abraham describe barren landscapes, alien planets, and the dawn of a new world. Intellectual speculation is integral to each drawing, and architectural critics have called them "visual poems". These two drawings from Abraham's Linear City series demonstrate his enduring fascination with the city, its eternal fluctuations and mechanistic foundations. Along with works by his fellow Austrians Walter Pichler and Hans Hollein, they were featured in the Museum's 1967 exhibition Architectural Fantasies: Drawings from the Museum's Collection, which focused on projects that relied on the machine not as a source of inspiration for design but as a basis for civilization. The works conjure up images of missile sites and giant engineering installations. They are devoid of people: for Abraham, "Architectural scale can no longer be based on the physical measurement of the human body, but has to be based on the new perception media, on all the senses, on dreams." Glacier City is almost invisible in its location, between the walls of a valley and beneath a membrane suspended above it to serve as a protective shield and a collector of solar energy. The part of it we see suggests a gunboat. The city's growth in its underground cavity is horizontal and linear rather than vertical; like arteries running through a living body, streets, transportation lines, and the sewer system are the functioning architectural passages. Similarly with Universal City, we seem to gaze out of a window onto a "settlement" strip that disappears into the horizon. This megastructure or artificial valley has the potential for infinite growth and universal applicability—it could form a ring around the globe. For Abraham the horizon is an architectural site, an idea influenced by the Viennese philosopher Ernest Mach and his theory of collision: the site of collision in Abraham's work is the meeting of earth and sky. "Building" for Abraham can mean to build with words as well as with lines, or volume, or concrete. Each is a reality and each is autonomous, as each has its own expression. As Abraham has said, "Even the principle of drawing reveals the origin of architecture—the act of interfering in, and shaping, space. For me the piece of paper is the space and the pencil the tool with which to intervene and shape."
The articulated silhouette and fluid monochrome wash of Arched Drinker embody the idiosyncratic poetic vision and unselfconscious technique of this self-taught artist. Traylor's single figures, or more complex scenes in which he weaves  figures, architecture, and other motifs into intricate patterns, show an acute observation, a visionary imagination, and a deftness of execution that are altogether astounding. Whereas some of Traylor's motifs may appear somewhat folkloric, others translate into an exuberant expression and sophisticated invention comparable to the more studied naïveté found in the works of Paul Klee or Jean Dubuffet, for example. These mainstream artists and others have long been inspired by the freshness and authenticity of expression of artists such as Traylor.Born into slavery in Benton, Alabama, Traylor practiced his art only during a three-year period, after the age of eighty-five. His initial mediums were watercolor and pencil, later expanded to include charcoal and poster paint; his supports were pieces of discarded cardboard. Traylor's subject matter was the street life of downtown Montgomery, observed from his makeshift sidewalk studio (a crate and a table), where he produced between 1,200 and 1,500 whimsical drawings.
The artist, 1900 – at least 1951Pierre and Patricia Matisse, New York. By 1966Eugene Victor Thaw (E. V. Thaw & Co.), New York (acting as agent on behalf of Vie des Arts, Anstalt, Vaduz). By 1975The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Purchased from Thaw, 1975
The artist, 1906 - 1938Kirchner Estate (seal: Nachlass E. L. Kirchner Dre BaG). 1938 -[Leonard Hutton Galleries, New York]Ernest and Margot Gottlieb, New York. 1966 - 1993The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Margot Gottlieb Bequest, 1993
The artist. 1927 – 1943 (On consignment with Galka Scheyer in San Francisco and Los Angeles for extended time)Buchholz Gallery (Curt Valentin), New York. Received on consignment from the artist, October 1943The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Purchased from Buchholz Gallery, 1943
The artist. 1928 - 1931Neue Kunst Fides Gallery, Dresden. By March 1931. Agent for Dix.J. B. Neumann (Jsrael Ber Neumann), New York. Acquired April 1931Mrs. John D. Rockefeller (Abby Aldrich Rockefeller), New York. [Purchased from Neumann in June] 1931 - 1935The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift of Abby Aldrich Rockefeller, 1935
The artist, 1929 – 1930Antony Kok, Tilburg. Acquired from Theo van Doesburg, 1930 – [1937]Nelly van Doesburg. Acquired from Kok, [1937]Oskar Muller-Widmann, Basel. Acquired from Nelly van Doesburg, [1937] – 1970Fetzold Muller Collection, Basel. Oskar Muller-Widmann Bequest, 1970Galerie Beyeler, Basel. Acquired from Fetzold Muller Collection, 1973 – 1974The Riklis Collection of McCrory Corporation. Acquired from Beyeler, 1974 – 1983The Museum of Modern Art, New York. The Riklis Collection of McCrory Corporation, 1983
The artist, 1932 – 1936(On consignment with Galka Scheyer, Hollywood/Los Angeles, 1933 – 1936)Mrs. L. M. Maitland (Ruth Maitland, d. 1948), Los Angeles. Purchased from Galka Scheyer, by February 1936 – 1948Mr.and Mrs. Walter Maitland (son of Ruth Maitland), Drake, Colorado. [1948] –Richard Feigen, Chicago and New YorkMeshulam Riklis, New York / McCrory CorporationThe Museum of Modern Art, New York. The Riklis Collection of McCrory Corporation, 1983
The artist, 1937 - 1938C. Bergman and A. O. L. Bergmann, Amsterdam. Purchased from the artist, 1938 - 1948Mr. E. Polak, Amsterdam. 1948 - 1950Sidney and Harriet Janis, New York. 1950 - 1967The Museum of Modern Art, New York. The Sidney and Harriet Janis Collection, 1967
The artist. 1942 - early 1980sDr. Cleto Polcina, DUE Cl s.r.l. Gallery, Rome. By November 1983George and Joyce Wein, Connecticut. Acquired end 1983 or early 1984 - 1999The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Partial gift of George and Joyce Wein, 1999
The artist [1]; acquired by Sidney Janis Gallery, New York, 1955 [2]; sold to William A. M. Burden, New York, 1955 [3]; Gift of William A. M. and Margaret Burden, New York, 1964 (donors retaining a life interest).[1] On loan from the artist to the exhibition Brancusi, Brummer Gallery, November 17, 1933-January 13, 1934, no. 11; exhibited at the Rumanian Pavilion of the World Fair, New York, 1939.[2] Collection files, Department of Painting and Sculpture, The Museum of Modern Art, New York.[3] Collection files, Department of Painting and Sculpture, The Museum of Modern Art, New York.
The artist [1]; to Jakob van Domselaer (1890-1960) and Maaike van Domselaer-Middelkoop (1892-1978), Amsterdam/Bergen, The Netherlands, after October 1915 until at least 1946 [2]. S.[alomon] van Deventer (1888-1972), Wassenaar, The Netherlands [3]; sold through Hedwig (Hedy) Imbach, New York, to The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1950 [4].[1] Included in the exhibitions Erster Deutscher Herbstsalon, Galerie Der Sturm, Berlin, September 20-December 1913 (no. 296); 16 composities van P. Mondrian, Parijs, Kunsthandel W. Walrecht, The Hague, c. June 15-July 31, 1914; Alma, Le Fauconnier en Mondrian, Rotterdamsche Kunstkring, Rotterdam, January 31-February 28, 1915 (no. 60); Werken van Lodewijk Schelfhout. Piet Mondriaan + Jan Sluyters + Leo Gestel + Le Fauconnier + J.C. van Epen, Stedelijk Museum, Amsterdam, October 3-25, 1915. [2] See See Robert P. Welsh, and Joop M. Joosten, Piet Mondrian: catalogue raisonné, New York: Harry N. Abrams, 1998, vol. II-III, B36. The title inscription "Compositie 5" suggests that the painting may have been included in the exhibition Hollandsche Kunstenaarskring: 2de tentoonstelling, Stedelijk Museum, Amsterdam, March 11-April 2, 1916. The painting was still in the possession of Jakob and Maaike van Domselaer in 1946: Domselaer lent the painting to the memorial exhibition Piet Mondriaan herdenkingstententoonstelling, Stedelijk Museum, Amsterdam, November 6-December 16, 1946.[3] See Robert P. Welsh, and Joop M. Joosten, Piet Mondrian: catalogue raisonné, New York: Harry N. Abrams, 1998, B36. Collection files 242.1950, Department of Painting and Sculpture, The Museum of Modern Art, New York.
The artist; acquired by Daniel-Henry Kahnweiler (1884-1979), Paris; seized during the war by the French government as enemy property and sold through Hôtel Drouot, Paris to André Breton, Paris, November 17-18, 1921 [1]. De Hauke & Co., New York, by 1930 [2]; acquired by Paul and Mildred Lamb, Shaker Heights, Ohio, by 1933 [3]; sold through Parke Bernet, New York, December 12, 1941 and acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York through the Lillie P. Bliss Bequest, 1942.[1] Tableaux, aquarelles, gouaches & dessins. [2nd sale of Kahnweiler collection]. Paris: Hôtel Drouot, November 17-November 18, 1921, no. 16: Nature morte. See Malcolm Gee, Dealers, Critics, and Collectors of Modern Painting: Aspects of the Parisian Art Market Between 1910 and 1930, New York and London: Garland Publishing, 1981, p. 48.[2] Included in the exhibition Cubism: 1910-13, De Hauke & Co., New York, April 1930, no. 21.[3] Collection files, The Department of Painting and Sculpture, The Museum of Modern Art, New York. See auct. cat. Modern paintings, Sculptures, Drawings and Prints [Collection of Mildred H. Lamb], Parke Bernet, New York, December 12, 1941, no. 120.
The artist; acquired by Galerie Lutz (van Diemen & Co.), Berlin, 1923. [Possibly sold to Sam Salz, Cologne]. Acquired by the Nationalgalerie Berlin, by 1935; sold (by exchange) to Kurt Feldhäusser (1905-1945), Berlin and Kirchberg, 1936-1945; by inheritance to Marie Luise Feldhaeusser (1876-1967), Kurt Feldhäusser's mother, Kirchberg and Brooklyn, 1945-1949; on consignment to E. Weyhe Gallery, New York, 1949; sold to The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1949.
The artist and theorist Robert Delaunay used the term "simultaneous contrast" in 1912 to describe the sensations of depth, motion, and harmony he achieved through color effects and a Cubist fragmentation of space. The poet Guillaume Apollinaire referred to the musicality implied in Delaunay's style when he deemed it "Orphic Cubism" or "Orphism," a reference to the Greek god Orpheus, who tamed beasts with his mythical lyre playing. Between 1922 and 1928, Delaunay executed five lithographs based on earlier paintings. The prints, like the paintings, exemplify Delaunay's engagement with the dynamism of Paris, as embodied primarily in its architecture. Favoring monochromatic drawings and prints over the brilliant color for which he was best known, the artist relied instead on chiaroscuro effects in concert with rhythmically placed lines and patterns. Delaunay drew throughout his career with the liquid tusche and greasy black crayon commonly used for lithography, so the process of making prints was not a great departure for him. In all, he made approximately thirty-five lithographs, most of which were book illustrations. A Parisian publisher had planned to include The Eiffel Tower in a portfolio of lithographs by Delaunay, with a text by French novelist Joris-Karl Huysmans, but the project was never completed. As the world's tallest monument at the time, the Eiffel Tower was for Delaunay a symbol of both modernity and masculinity, and he depicted it time and again. He was among the first artists to focus on this landmark as a subject, and it appears throughout his illustrated book Allo! Paris, with text by Joseph Delteil. Delaunay's more well-known, purely abstract imagery, comprising concentric, curved, and segmented bands, appears only rarely in his prints.
The artistAntony Kok, Tilburg / Leiden. Purchased from the artist, [1921?] - 1952John L. Senior, Jr., Danbury, Connecticut. Acquired through Nelly van Doesburg. [1952] - 1957The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift of John L. Senior, Jr., 1957
The artist, Barcelona. 1933 - 1934?Pierre Matisse Gallery, New York. Acquired from the artist, by 1934George L. K. Morris, New York. Acquired from Pierre MatisseThe Museum of Modern Art , New York. Acquired from George L. K. Morris in exchange for another work by Miró, September 1937
The artist, Berlin. 1921 – 1955Rose Fried Gallery, New York. Purchased from the artist, 1955 – 1956Herbert and Nanette Rothschild, New York. Purchased from Rose Fried, 1956The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift of Herbert and Nanette Rothschild, 1956
The artist, Berlin. Stadtmuseum and Gemäldegalerie, Dresden, 1919 [1]; removed as "degenerate art" by the Reich Ministry for Public Enlightenment and Propaganda, 1937 [2]; in storage at the repository for propaganda exhibitions, Velten (Mark), 1938 [3]. Sold through Stuttgarter Kunstkabinett (Roman Norbert Ketterer), May  10-12, 1950 [3]. On consignment from German private collection to Galerie Wilhelm Grosshennig, Düsseldorf [4]; sold to Curt Valentin Gallery (formerly Buchholz Gallery), New York, [1953] [5]; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1955 (Gertrud A. Mellon Fund).[1] Inventory no. 1919/88. Before the painting was removed from the collection in 1937, it was included as "degenerate art" in the exhibition "Entartete Kunst" at the Städtische Galerie, Nürnberg, September 7, 1935-September 21, 1935; at the Haus der Kunst, Dortmund, November 11, 1935-December 8, 1935; and at the Volksbildungsheim Frankfurt a.M., September 9, 1936-September 30, 1936 (see  Beschlagnahmeinventar "Entartete Kunst", "Degenerate Art" Research Center, FU Berlin).[2] EK no. 15938: Pharisäer. [3] Included in the exhibition "Entartete Kunst," Hofgarten-Arkaden, Munich, July 19-November 30, 1937 and other venues (Berlin, Leipzig, Düsseldorf). See  Beschlagnahmeinventar "Entartete Kunst", "Degenerate Art" Research Center, FU Berlin.[4] Auction no. 8, lot no. 1893. See  Beschlagnahmeinventar "Entartete Kunst", "Degenerate Art" Research Center, FU Berlin).[5] Collection files 160.1955, Department of Painting and Sculpture, The Museum of Modern Art, New York.
The artist; by inheritance to Lily Klee (1876-1946), Bern, 1940 [1]; acquired by the Klee Gesellschaft (Klee Society), Bern, 1946 [2]; sold to Galerie Rosengart, Lucerne, by 1948 [3]; sold to Carstairs Gallery (Georges F. Keller), New York, by 1948 [4]; The Museum of Modern Art, New York (Acquired through the Lillie P. Bliss Bequest), 1950.[1] Paul-Klee-Stiftung, Kunstmuseum Bern, eds. Paul Klee: catalogue raisonné. Bern: Benteli and New York: Thames and Hudson, vol. 6 (2002), no. 5971. [2] Ibid.[3] Ibid.[4] Ibid.
[The artist, c. 1910- 11] (cast at Fonderie Valsuani, Paris)Paul Rosenberg, Paris, c. 1930 - 1958Alexandre Rosenberg, New York, 1958 - 1974 (by inheritance)The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift of Mr. and Mrs. Alexandre Rosenberg, 1974
The artist (cast at Fonderie Valsuani, Paris)C. W. Kraushaar Gallery, New York, by 1929John D. Rockefeller, Jr, New York. Purchased from Kraushaar, November 1, 1929 - 1939 The Museum of Modern Art, New York, Anonymous donor, 1939
[The artist (cast by Herman Noack, Berlin). 1930Galerie Flechtheim, Berlin, 1930-1931Edward M. M. Warburg, Berlin. Purchased from Galerie Flechtheim, March 1931-1941 The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift of Edward M. M. Warburg, 1941
The artistClaude Spaak, Choisel (France), and Rixensart (Brussels, Belgium). Acquired from the artistSidney Janis Gallery, New York. [Acquired from Spaak,] by 1951The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Purchased from Janis, 1951
The artistDorothea Tanning, New York. Acquired from the aboveAcquavella Galleries, New York, 1984The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Purchased from the above (through Gift of Lily Auchincloss and the Lillie P. Bliss Bequest, by exchange), 1984
The artist[Dr. Girardin (Galerie La Licorne), Paris. Acquired from artist c. September 1921?]Galerie Pierre (Pierre Loeb), Paris. [1930] [By October 1934]Pierre Matisse Gallery, New York. By November 1936Alexina Matisse (later Alexina Duchamp), New York. 1949Sidney Janis Gallery, New YorkThe Museum of Modern Art, New York. Purchased from Sidney Janis Gallery with funds provided by Armand Grover Erpf, April 1955
The artistDr. Kurt Feldhäusser (d. January 1945), Berlin/Kirchberg. Purchased from the artistMarie Luise Feldhaeusser (mother), Kirchberg, January 1945 - May 1948; then Brooklyn, New York, 1948 – 1949Weyhe Gallery, New York. On consignment from Marie Luise Feldhaeusser, 1949The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Purchased from Weyhe Gallery , 1949
The artistDr. Nagel, New York. Gift of the artist in return for medical servicesKatherine S. Dreier (1877-1952), West Redding, ConnecticutThe Museum of Modern Art, New York. Katherine S. Dreier Bequest , 1953
The artistFernand Léger, Paris, 1912 - 1960 (In 1912, Léger gave Archipenko a painting for this sculpture)Perls Galleries, New York, 1960 (Purchased from Léger's widow)The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift of Frances Archipenko Gray and Perls Galleries in honor of William S.Lieberman, 1969
The artist; Gift to Curt Valentin, Buchholz Gallery, New York, April 1937 [1]; Gift  to The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1947.[1] Per inscription "Herrn Curt Valentin mit allen guten Wünschen von E L Kirchner / April 37." lower middle margin, black ink, artist's hand.
The artist; given to his sister, Inger Munch; to Kaare Berntsen, Oslo, c. 1950; to Kaare Bernsten, Jr.; sold to Patricia Irgens Larsen, 1967; given by the Patricia P. Irgens Larsen Foundation to The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 2002.
The artistGustave Candel, Paris. Acquired from Duchamp, [likely before WWI] – at least 1959 [likely until c. 1964]Cordier & Ekstrom, New York. [Likely acquired from Candel]William and Mary Sisler, New York, N.Y. and Palm Beach, Florida. [Likely acquired from Candel through Cordier & Ekstrom], by 1965 – 1990The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Mary Sisler Bequest, 1990
The artistGustave Candel, Paris. Acquired from Duchamp, [likely before WWI]. At least until 1959. [Likely until c. 1964]Cordier & Ekstrom, New York. [Likely purchased from Candel, c. 1964]William and Mary Sisler, New York, N.Y. and Palm Beach, Florida. [Likely purchased from Candel through Cordier & Ekstrom], by 1965 – 1990The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Mary Sisler Bequest, 1990
The artist, Hannover [1]. Acquired by the McCrory Corporation (Meshulam Riklis) by 1977 [2]; The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1983 (The Riklis Collection of McCrory Corporation).[1] Included in the exhibition Ausstellung der Allgemeinen Deutschen Kunstgenossenschaft, Ortsgruppe Hannover, Bad Pyrmont, July 1928; and Carl Buchheister, Galerie Der Sturm, Berlin, May 11-June 30, 1929 (see Elisabeth Buchheister and Willi Kemp, eds., Carl Buchheister: Werkverzeichnis der abstrakten Arbeiten, vol. 2, Darmstadt: Eduard Roether Verlag, 1984, no. 13).  [2] Included in the exhibition Aspekte Konstruktiver Kunst: Sammlung McCrory Corporation, Kunsthaus Zurich, January 14 to February 27, 1977 (no. 29). See also Rotzler, Willy, ed. Constructivism and the Geometric Tradition: Selections from the McCrory Corporation Collection. Buffalo: Albright-Knox Art Gallery, 1979 (no. 29).
The artistJohn Quinn, New York. Acquired from the artist through Henri Pierre Roché, May 1922 - in Quinn's collection until his death in 1924Estate of John Quinn, 1924 - 1926Paul Rosenberg, ParisMrs. Mary / Meric Callery, New York. By 1940 - at least 1945[Carlo Frua de Angeli, Milan (Mary Callery's second husband) ]J. B. Neumann (Jsrael Ber Neumann), New York. By 1948Mr. and Mrs. Allan D. Emil, New York. Purchased from J.B. Neumann, c. 1948 - 1952The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift of Mr. and Mrs. Allan D. Emil, 1952
The artistLéonce Rosenberg, Paris. Purchased from the artist, November 10, 1915Henri Matisse. Purchased back from Rosenberg, 1916Georges Bernheim, ParisJohn Quinn, New York. Purchased from Bernheim, October 1923 - 1924Estate of John Quinn. 1924 - 1926Joseph Brummer Gallery, New YorkMrs. John Alden Carpenter, Chicago, purchased via Brummer Gallery, New York. 1926Paul Rosenberg, Paris and New YorkJérôme Stonborough. [?] – October 17, 1940 (Auction of Stonborough estate, Parke Bernet, New York)Mr. and Mrs. Samuel A. Marx , Chicago; then Florene May Schoenborn (Samuel A. Marx's widow, later Mrs. Wolfgang Schoenborn). Purchased through Parke-Bernet Galleries, New York, October 17, 1940 - 1964The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift and bequest of Florene M. Schoenborn and Samuel A. Marx, 1964
The artist, London, 1913  John Quinn Collection, New York, by 1924. Purchased from the artistFindlay Galleries, New York, by 1936. Purchased at Quinn Auction, American Art Galleries, New York, February 9-12, 1927, cat. 704A. Conger Goodyear, New York, by 1937 The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift of A. Conger Goodyear, 1938
The artist, London. 1914Leicester Galeries, London. By 1918  John Quinn, New York. Purchased from Leicester Galleries, by 1924Walter and Lucie Rosen, Katonah, New York. By 1933 The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift of Mrs. Murray Crane, 1945
The artistLouis Süe (1875-1968), Paris. Gift from the artistGalerie Pierre (Pierre Loeb), Paris. By 1926René Gaffé, Brussels, Belgium, and Cagnes-sur-Mer, France. Purchased from Pierre Loeb, December 1926 – 1947. (On extended loan at MoMA, 1939-1947)(Justin K. Thannhauser, New York. Agent for Gaffé, 1946-47)The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Purchased from Gaffé, through Thannhauser, 1947
The artistMary Callery (1903-1977, aka Meric Callery), Paris (Boulogne-sur-Seine) and New York. By 1939 - 1950Nelson A. Rockefeller, New York. October 16, 1950 - 1979. Purchased from Mary Callery, New YorkThe Museum of Modern Art, New York. Nelson A. Rockefeller Bequest, 1979
The artist, MilanMr. and Mrs. Vico Baer (friends and patrons of Boccioni), Milan, then New York. [c. 1924] - 1957Herbert and Nannette Rothschild, Westchester, New York. Purchased from Vico Baer, November 4, 1957The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift of Herbert and Nannette Rothschild, 1957
The artistMondrian Estate (Harry Holtzman, New York). 1944 -Lee A. Ault, New York. - 1957Sidney Janis, New York. Acquired from Lee Ault collection, 1957 - 1967The Museum of Modern Art, New York. The Sidney and Harriet Janis Collection, 1967
The artist, MontroigJacques Viot (Galerie Pierre), Paris. [Acquired from the artist]André Breton, Paris. Acquired from Viot, by June 1925Simone Breton (formerly Simone Kahn, later Simone Collinet), Paris. 1929 – 1936The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Purchased from Simone Collinet, through Pierre Matisse, December 1936
The artist, Moscow and Petrograd/Leningrad. 1912 - 1927 Hugo Haering, Berlin, 1927 - 1930.  Malevich took approximately seventy works, including this one, from Leningrad to Berlin in 1927, where the work was displayed at Große Berliner Austellung.  Malevich left these paintings and drawings in the care of a Berlin Architect named Hugo Haering when he returned to Leningrad later in 1927.  In 1930, Haering transferred the collection to the care of Alexander Dorner, director of the Provinzialmuseum in Hannover.  Malevich never returned to Germany to collect the works, and died in Leningrad in 1935 without leaving instructions directing the disposition of his art. Provinzialmuseum (later Landesmuseum), Hannover, 1930 - 1935.  Dorner exhibited the pictures until the Nazis came to power in 1933, and then placed them in storage to save them from possible destruction.  In 1935, Alfred Barr, acting on behalf of The Museum of Modern Art, bought two paintings and two drawings from Dorner, and borrowed other works.  The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1935 - present.  The works remained on extended loan to The Museum of Modern Art until 1963, when they were acquired into the collection.  The acquisition was confirmed in 1999 by agreement with Malevich's heirs and made possible with funds from the Mrs. John Hay Whitney Bequest (by exchange).
The artist, Moscow and Petrograd/Leningrad. 1916 - 1927 Hugo Haering, Berlin, 1927 - 1930.  Malevich took approximately seventy works, including this one, from Leningrad to Berlin in 1927, where the work was displayed at Große Berliner Austellung.  Malevich left these paintings and drawings in the care of a Berlin Architect named Hugo Haering when he returned to Leningrad later in 1927.  In 1930, Haering transferred the collection to the care of Alexander Dorner, director of the Provinzialmuseum in Hannover.  Malevich never returned to Germany to collect the works, and died in Leningrad in 1935 without leaving instructions directing the disposition of his art.   Provinzialmuseum (later Landesmuseum), Hannover, 1930 - 1935.  Dorner exhibited the pictures until the Nazis came to power in 1933, and then placed them in storage to save them from possible destruction.  In 1935, Alfred Barr, acting on behalf of The Museum of Modern Art, bought two paintings and two drawings from Dorner, and borrowed other works.  The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1935 - present.  The works remained on extended loan to The Museum of Modern Art until 1963, when they were acquired into the collection.  The acquisition was confirmed in 1999 by agreement with Malevich's heirs and made possible with funds from the Mrs. John Hay Whitney Bequest (by exchange).
The artist, Moscow, until at least 1920  [1]; acquired by the Museum Bureau of the Commissariat of Enlightenment, Moscow, 1920 [2]; on deposit at the Museum of Artistic Culture, Vitebsk and then transferred to the Museum at Rostov-Yaroslavsky, 1922 [3]. [Sold through Sotheby's, London, 1972] [4]. The McCrory Corporation (Meshulam Riklis), by 1977 [5]; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1983 (The Riklis Collection of McCrory Corporation).[1] Included in the exhibitions Union of Youth, St. Petersburg, November 23, 1913-January 23, 1914 (no. 71: Samovar, 1913); Salon des Indépendants, Paris, March 1-April 30, 1914 (no. 2154: Samovar); Tramvai V, Petrograd, 1915; XVIth State Exhibition (Kazimir Malevich: His Path from Impressionism to Suprematism), Moscow, March 1920.[2] See f. 665-1-17, Russian Archives of Art and Literature, Moscow, qtd. in Andréi Nakov, ed., Kazimir Malewicz: Catalogue Raisonné, Paris: Société Nouvelle Adam Biro, Paris, 2002, no. F-376. [3] Inv. no. Z-1815. Per Nakov 2002, no. F-377. Sources: RGALI 665-1-24, p. 81, 82; 665-1-8-p. 160, 665-1-17, p. 11; 665-1-17, p. 129, 665-1-25, p. 81, 82. [4] Per Nakov 2002.[5] On loan from the McCrory Corporation to the exhibition Konstruktive Kunst, Kunsthaus Zurich, January 13 - February 27, 1977 (no. 108).
The artist, on consignment to Léonce Rosenberg, Galerie L'Effort moderne, Paris. June 20, 1923 - [spring 1924?]Pierre Loeb/Galerie Pierre, Paris. [By 1925]The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Purchased from Pierre Loeb, January 1939
The artist, on consignment to Léonce Rosenberg, Galerie L'Effort moderne, Paris. June 20, 1923 - spring 1924?Pierre Loeb/Galerie Pierre, Paris. By 1937 - 1939The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Purchased from Pierre Loeb, January 1939
The artist, Paris. 1929 - 1930Philip Johnson, New York/Cambridge, Mass. Purchased from the artist in Paris, summer 1930 -  June 1941The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift of Philip Johnson, June 1941
The artist, Paris, 1933Sidney and Harriet Janis, New York. Selected from artist in Paris before completion, in 1932. Received in 1933 - 1967The Museum of Modern Art, New York. The Sidney and Harriet Janis Collection, 1967
The artist, Paris [1]. [Roland Balay and Louis Carré, Paris, by 1938] [2]. Mary Callery (1903-1977), Paris/New York, by 1939 [3]; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1950 (Mrs. Simon Guggenheim Fund).[1] Lender to the exhibitions Picasso, Galerie Georges Petit, Paris, June 16-July 30, 1932 ( no 190: La Baigneuse, 1929);  and Picasso, Kunsthaus Zurich, Sept 11-Oct 30, 1932 (no 188: Badende). Offered for sale at the Zurich exhibition (but not sold). [2] Per label on stretcher. Gallery established in 1938.[3] Lender to the exhibitions Picasso: Forty Years of His Art, The Museum of Modern Art, New York, November 15, 1939-January 7, 1940 (no. 231: Seated Bather); Masterpieces of Picasso, The Museum of Modern Art, New York, July 16-September 7, 1941; New York Private Collections, The Museum of Modern Art, New York, July 20-September 12, 1948.
The artist, Paris [1]; sold to Paul Guillaume (1891-1934), Paris, by 1918 [2]; sold to Albert C. Barnes, (1872-1951), Merion, PA, 1925 [3]. Sold through Galerie Bonaparte, Paris to The Museum of Modern Art, New York, December 1936 [4].[1] First exhibited in de Chirico's studio at 115 Rue Notre-Dame-des-Champs, October 6-30, 1913; see Paolo Baldacci, De Chirico: The Metaphysical Period, 1888-1919, Boston: Little, Brown, 1997, p. 147, no. 23. Included in the Salon des Indépendants, Paris, March 1-April 30, 1914 (no. 682). Also exhibited at Galerie Georges Giroux, Brussels, Exposition d'oeuvres de sculpture et de peinture du Salon des Artistes Indépendants de Paris, May 16-June 7, 1914.[2] Reproduced in Les Arts à Paris no. 3 (December 15, 1918), p. 9. Included in the exhibition Peintres d'Aujourd'hui, Galerie Paul Guillaume, December 15-23, 1918 (no. 12).[3] Date of acquisition per Paolo Baldacci, De Chirico: The Metaphysical Period, 1888-1919, Boston: Little, Brown, 1997, p. 147, no. 23.[4] Letter Gray Williams to Betsy Jones, November 29, 1967, Collection files: " … it was purchased by Alfred from the Galerie Bonaparte in Paris in the summer of 1936." Included in the exhibition Fantastic Art, Dada and Surrealism, The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1936 (no. 190).
The artist, Paris; on loan to The International Exhibition of Modern Art, New York, February 17-March 15, 1913; acquired by John Quinn [1870-1924], New York, 1913; [sale of Quinn collection, American Art Association, New York, February 9-12, 1927]; sold to George Acheson, New York; February 1927; Helen Acheson, New York; bequeathed to The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1978.
The artist, ParisPaul Guillaume, Paris. By 1922 - 1934Madame Paul Guillaume (Juliette Lacaze, a.k.a. Domenica, 1898-1977) / Estate of Paul Guillaume. October 1934 - 1935Pierre Matisse Gallery, New York. Taken in consignment in 1935 from Madame Paul Guillaume - March 1937Walter P. Chrysler, Jr., New York and Warrenton, Virginia. Purchased from Pierre Matisse, March 1937 - 1950Sold at auction, The collection of Walter P. Chrysler, Jr., Parke-Bernet Galleries, New York, 1950The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Purchased at auction through the Lillie P. Bliss Bequest, 1950
The artist, Paris; to Ambroise Vollard (1866-1939), Paris [1]. Acquired by Maurice Sauvant, Paris, by 1949 [2]; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, through Michel-Ange Bernard Fort (Emile Bernard's son), 1962 (Grace Rainey Rogers Fund) [3].[1] Jean-Jacques Luthi, Emile Bernard: Catalogue raisonné de l'oeuvre peint, Paris: Editions Side, 1982, no. 43: Le pont d'Asnières (Le pont de fer à Asnières), 1887.[2] Ibid. Handwritten label by Michel-Ange Bernard Fort on verso dated February 25, 1949 identifying owner as Maurice Sauvant. Included in the exhibition Emile Bernard, Galerie Durand-Ruel, Paris, April 24-May 15, 1959 (no. 5: Le pont d'Asnières [Collection Maurice Sauvant]). [3] Collection files, Department of Painting and Sculpture, The Museum of Modern Art, New York.
The artist, Paris, until at least 1936 [1]; Jacques Villon, Paris [2]; Marcel Duchamp, Paris [3]; Spencer A. Samuels & Co., New York [4]; Suzanne Feigel, Basel [5]; Annely Juda Fine Art, London [6]; acquired by the McCrory Corporation (Meshulam Riklis) by 1975 [7]; The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1983 (The Riklis Collection of McCrory Corporation).[1] Included in the exhibition F. Kupka-A. Mucha, Musée des Ecoles Etrangères Contemporaines, Jeu de Paume des Tuileries, Paris, June 1936, no. 59, repr.[2] See Meda Mladek and Margit Rowell, eds. Frantiŝek Kupka, 1871-1957: A Retrospective, New York: Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation, 1975, no. 101.[3] Ibid.[4] Gallery label formerly on verso. [5] Ibid.[6] Gallery label formerly on verso.[7] Included in the exhibition Aspekte Konstruktiver Kunst: Sammlung McCrory Corporation, Kunsthaus Zurich, January 14 to February 27, 1977 (no. 91). See also Rotzler, Willy, ed. Constructivism and the Geometric Tradition: Selections from the McCrory Corporation Collection. Buffalo: Albright-Knox Art Gallery, 1979 (no. 91).
The artistPrivate collection of Pierre Matisse (and later also Patricia Kane Matisse), New York. Purchased from the artist, 1945 - 1982The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift of Pierre Matisse in memory of Patricia Kane Matisse, 1982
The artist referred to this turned-wood sculpture as a portrait, although it betrays no interest in naturalistic, physical resemblance. Instead, the design creates a masklike face that is reminiscent of Oceanic and Northwest Coast Indian artifacts.
The artist; sold through Galerie Der Sturm, Berlin, to Sally Falk (1888-1962), Mannheim, 1917 [1]; sold to Rudolf Pfrunder, Zurich, January 6, 1919 [2]; sold to J.B. Neumann (1887-1961), Berlin, October 1919 [3]; acquired by Dora Benjamin as a birthday gift for Walter Benjamin (1892-1940), Berlin, 1920 [4]. [Possibly J.B. Neumann, New York, by 1937] [5]. Acquired by Allan (1906-1975) and Beatrice Roos, New York and San Francisco, by October 1940 [6]; given to The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1962.[1] Paul-Klee-Stiftung, Kunstmuseum Bern, eds. Paul Klee: catalogue raisonné. Bern: Benteli and New York: Thames and Hudson, vol. 2 (2000), no. 1651. Der Sturm gallery label on verso. Included in the exhibition Paul Klee and Georg Muche, February 1917 (no. 30). According to Roland Dorn et al., Stiftung und Sammlung Sally Falk, Mannheim: Städtische Kunsthalle, 1994, p. 166, no. 134, sold through Walden to Falk. On deposit from Falk at the Kunsthalle Mannheim since May 1918.[2] Roland Dorn et al., Stiftung und Sammlung Sally Falk, Mannheim: Städtische Kunsthalle, 1994, p. 166, no. 134.[3] Ibid. [4] Paul Klee: catalogue raisonné, vol. 2 (2000), no. 1651. Christoph Gödde and Henri Lonitz, eds. Walter Benjamin: Gesammelte Briefe, vol. 2 (1919-1924), Frankfurt am Main: Suhrkamp, 1995-2000, p. 93.   [5] Reproduced on the cover of the bound issue of Artlover, J.B. Neumann's Bilderhefte. Anthologie d'un marchand d'art, vol. III, published in 1937. Also reproduced in Robert Goldwater, Primitivism in Modern Painting, New York: Harper, 1938, p. 155: "Courtesy J.B. Neumann."[6] Included in the exhibition Paul Klee, Buchholz Galleries-Willard Gallery, New York, October 9-November 2, 1940 (no. 6): "Collection: Mr. Allan Roos, New York."
The artist; sold to Johanna Ey (1864-1947), Düsseldorf, c. 1921 [1]; acquired by the Kunstsammlungen Chemnitz, 1925 [2]; sold to unknown buyer, 1937 [3]. Kurz collection; sold through Klipstein and Kornfeld, Bern to Piccadilly Gallery, London, June 14, 1967 [4]; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, July 1969. [1] See Ulrike Lorenz, ed., Otto Dix: Das Werkverzeichnis der Zeichnungen und Pastelle, Weimar: VDG, Verlag für Geisteswissenschaften, 2003, p. 769, no. EDV 6.3.18. Cf. inscription lower right margin. [2] See Thomas Bauer-Friedrich, "Arbeiten von Otto Dix im Bestand der Kunstsammlungen Chemnitz," Ingrid Mössinger, ed., Otto Dix. Die Stiftung Dr. Alfred Gunzenhauser, Bielefeld et al.: Kerber Verlag, 2012, p. 261. [3] Ibid.[4] Moderne Kunst des neunzehnten und zwanzigsten Jahrhunderts, Klipstein and Kornfeld, Bern (auction 123), June 14, 1967, lot 342.
The artistSuzanne Crotti (1889-1963), Paris. Acquired from Picabia, [date?] – [at least 1962]Mary and William Sisler / Estate of Mary Sisler, New York. 1964 – 1990The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Mary Sisler Bequest, 1990
The artist; to Kirchner Estate (Erna Schilling), Davos-Frauenkirch, June 15, 1938; to clearing house Zurich, October 4, 1945; to Kunstsammlung Basel, 1946-1947; to Roman Norbert Ketterer, 1954; to Margarete Schultz, New York;  to The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1955
The artist. Until 1936Pierre Colle (Galerie Renou et Colle), Paris. Purchased from the artist, 1936Mrs. Stanley B. Resor, New York. Purchased from Pierre Colle, 1936 – 1944The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Purchased from Mrs. Stanley Resor through the Lillie P. Bliss Bequest, 1944
The artist, until 1949Simon Lissim (executor of estate), Dobbs Ferry, N.Y. 1949-1972McCrory Corporation. 1972–1983The Museum of Modern Art, New York. The Riklis Collection of McCrory Corporation, 1983
The artist, Weimar/Budapest, until at least 1969 [1]. W. Holstein, by 1972 [2]; Meshulam Riklis, New York; given to The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1983 (The Riklis Collection of McCrory Corporation).[1] Included in the exhibition Bortnyik Sandor Kiallitasa, Hungarian National Gallery, Budapest (March-April, 1969), cat. no. 16 (Collection of the artist).[2] Included in the exhibition Sandor Bortnyik: Ölbilder, Gouachen, Zeichnungen, Cologne: Galerie Gmurzynska and Bargera (June 15-June 30, 1972), cat. no. 28 (Collection W. Holstein).
The Atlas Group is a fictional non–profit research organization Raad founded in 1999. It presents itself to the public as a real collective with a mission to research and document the contemporary history of Lebanon, in particular the civil wars between 1975 and 1991. In the guise of The Atlas Group, Raad collects and fabricates photographs, videotapes, notebooks, and films and presents the findings in the form of exhibitions, video screenings, and lectures.This work assembles one hundred photographs of car engines taken by amateur and professional photographers. During the civil wars, approximately 245 car bombs exploded in Lebanon, detonated by groups across the political and religious spectrum. The only part of the car that remained intact after the blast was the engine, and newspaper reports of car bombs consistently included photographs of engines and the police officers, politicians, and onlookers who gathered in the aftermath of the explosion. Raad collected the photographs from newspaper archives in Lebanon, scanned their fronts and backs, and printed them with the date of the explosion, the name of the photographer (when known), and an English translation of the notations on the backs of the pictures. From a complex political issue he extracts and clarifies one aspect: the photo opportunity. This is just one lens through which Raad examines the ways in which the economic, political, and social history of Lebanon has been recorded, recalled, and understood.
The Barcelona Chair achieves the serenity of line and the refinement of proportions and materials characteristic of Mies van der Rohe's highly disciplined architecture. It is supported on each side by two chrome-plated, flat steel bars. Seen from the side, the single curve of the bar forming the chair's back and front legs crosses the S-curve of the bar forming the seat and back legs, making an intersection of the two. This simple shape derives from a long history of precedents, from ancient Egyptian folding stools to nineteenth-century neoclassical seating. The cantilevered seat and the back of the original chairs were upholstered in white kid leather with welt and button details.Mies van der Rohe designed this chair for his German Pavilion at the Barcelona Exposition of 1929. The Pavilion was the site of the inaugural ceremony for the German exhibits at the exposition, and the Spanish king was to preside. It had to be an "important chair, a very elegant chair," according to the architect. "The government was to receive a king. . . . The chair had to be . . . monumental. In those circumstances, you just couldn't use a kitchen chair."Although only two Barcelona chairs were made for the German Pavilion, the design was put into production and became so popular that, with the exception of one sixteen-year period, it has been manufactured since 1929.Barcelona Chair. 1929
The bare facts of the picture are bare indeed: an undecorated room, a plain blanket, a sturdy bed with rails like prison bars or like the slats of a crib. All that animates the room is the electronic image on the television screen. That image is human, nonetheless, and it serves as a companion of sorts for the occupant of the room.Televisions became common in living rooms (and motel rooms) in the early 1950s, so it is fair to say that this picture confronts a significant aspect of the then contemporary American "social landscape," a term coined by Friedlander. But unlike the photographs that Life and other magazines had made familiar to millions, this picture declines to state a case—to judge or explain. Alertly engaged with the material of contemporary life, it fiercely resists the ready conclusions of journalism or sociology. In this respect, it is exemplary of the most adventurous American photography of the 1960s, whose leaders opened new artistic territory by transforming the pictorial vocabulary of photojournalism into a means of asserting and exploring their distinctly individual sensibilities.
The bar in the Hotel Eden was a popular meeting place for Berlin's artistic and literary crowd in the 1920s. Tightly compressed into this angular composition, the patrons stare away from each other blankly, reflecting the alienation Beckmann perceived in Berlin's café society.
The Bather is one of Cézanne's most evocative paintings of the figure, although the unmuscled torso and arms have no heroic pretensions, and the drawing, in traditional, nineteenth-century terms, is awkward and imprecise. The bather's left, forward leg is placed firmly on the ground, but his right leg trails and carries no weight. The right side of his body is pulled higher than the left, the chin curves lopsidedly, and the right arm is elongated and oblique. The landscape is as bare as a desert, but its green, violet, and rose coloration refuses that name. Its dreaming expanse matches the bather's pensiveness. Likewise, the shadows on the body, rather than shifting to black, share the colors of the air, land, and water; and the brushwork throughout is a network of hatch-marks and dapples, restless yet extraordinarily refined. The figure moves toward us but does not meet our gaze.These disturbances can be characterized as modern: they indicate that while Cézanne had an acute respect for much of traditional art, he did not represent the male nude the way the classical and Renaissance artists had done. He wanted to make an art that was "solid and durable like the art of the museums" but that also reflected a modern sensibility incorporating the new understanding of vision and light developed by the Impressionists. He wanted to make an art of his own time that rivaled the traditions of the past.
The bicycle manufacturer Biomega, the clothing company Vexed Generation, and the sports-equipment manufacturer Puma joined forces to launch a limited-edition series consisting of this bike and a range of accessories and garments designed for everyday use in the city. A folding mechanism allows the bike to be reduced in size by fifty percent to fit in tight spaces. Its main feature is a lock that is integrated within the structural framework. If a would-be thief breaks the lock, the bicycle breaks as well.
The B.K.F. Chair—also known as the Hardoy Chair, Butterfly Chair, Safari Chair, Sling Chair, or Wing Chair—was designed in Buenos Aires. Its name credits its three designers. The first two B.F.K. chairs to come to the United States went to Fallingwater, Edgar Kaufmann Jr.'s home in Pennsylvania (designed by family friend Frank Lloyd Wright), and to MoMA. Kaufmann accurately predicted that the lightweight and inexpensive lounge chair would become hugely popular in the U.S., particularly on the West Coast. Artek-Pascoe produced the chair from 1941 to 1948, sending royalties back to Argentina. Knoll Associates acquired U.S. production rights in the late 1940s and unsuccessfully pursued legal action against unauthorized copies, which continue to be produced to this day.
The buildup of vapors underground can affect the performance of a manhole cover. To address this situation, engineers from Con Edison, the private utility that delivers electricity, gas, and steam service to the New York metropolitan area, set out to design a cover that would allow for ventilation, keep electrical cables and gas and steam pipelines hidden, withstand heavy traffic vibrations, minimize water entry, and prevent excess accumulation of street debris. Weighing nearly three hundred pounds, the new manhole cover allows for twenty-six percent of the surface area to be open for ventilation.
The Cabbage Chair is a response to a challenge from fashion designer Issey Miyake to create an application for the heaps of paper that are a by-product of the fabric-pleating process used in many of his designs. The Cabbage Chair “appears naturally” as layers of a roll of this paper, stiffened and made resilient by added resins, are peeled back. Its rough appearance contrasts with its comfort, and the reuse of materials and minimal production and distribution costs—the chair requires minimal packaging—make it a valuable addition to the evolving debate on design and sustainability.
The Cabinet of Baby Fay La Foe is a twenty-first-century cabinet of curiosities, a sculpture whose overall form doubles as a display case, yet whose enigmatic contents resist taxonomic classification. Preserved behind plexiglass are a stylized séance table, a stack of barbells cast in solar salt, and a veiled top hat filled to the brim with honeycombed beeswax. A vaguely anthropomorphic recumbent shape made of cast solar salt fixed with epoxy resin seems part body fragment, part crystalline landscape, and appears suspended in a liminal state between becoming and unbecoming. All, with the exception of the barbells, are attributes of Baby Fay La Foe, a real-life clairvoyant as well as a character in Barney's gothic Western Cremaster 2 (1999), the fourth film in the artist's epic, five-part Cremaster cycle.Barney's overarching concerns are with the mutability, metamorphosis, and creation of form. Best-known for his feature-length films, he describes himself as a sculptor, insisting that all of his polyglot production—films, photographs, drawings, sculptures, banners, and installations—exists as a series of discrete yet interrelated objects within the multidimensional space of the Cremaster cycle's self-enclosed universe. The Cabinet of Baby Fay La Foe recapitulates on a microcosmic level key features of Barney's expansive cosmology. Drawing on Surrealist strategies of fragmentation, uncanny juxtaposition, and fetishistic display, the luminous nylon borders of the cabinet's vitrine are a material manifestation of film's (and photography's) omnipresent invisible frame. Filled with fantasy objects constructed from the artist's signature materials, the work is nominally a symbolic portrait, yet any fixed meanings remain sealed off, subject to transformation and thus tantalizingly out of reach.
The Camcopter S-100, a compact and lightweight helicopter with an autonomous flight-control system, was originally designed for aerial mine detection by the Vienna-based company Schiebel, specializing in humanitarian de-mining since the 1970s. In addition to its original use, the vehicle, here in its second generation, has proved its efficiency in a number of other applications: border and harbor patrol; anti-smuggling actions; tactical surveillance, including maritime reconnaissance; firefighting in forests; monitoring of natural disasters; flood relief; search and rescue of missing persons in out-of-the-way areas; surveillance of oil pipelines, railways, industrial plants, and water, power, and communication lines; precise dropping of humanitarian aid in inaccessible areas; cartographic studies and surveys; scientific measurements; and pest control in agriculture.
The cardboard support of Rope and People, I is identical to other works in this series, but Miró treated it very differently. The hooks that hold this coiled rope in place puncture the cardboard support. The rope maintains its identity as such, but it is also central and upright, like a human figure. Its form mimics the shape of the elongated body painted to its left, even as its heavy, assertive presence suggests an instrument of violence.
The central poster agency of the Polish People's Republic, Wydawnictwo Artystyczno-Graficzne (WAG), commissioned a large number of posters for the state circus from different artists. The subject matter lent itself to surreal and expressive distortions of the human figure and bright, clashing colors.
The City of the Captive Globe is a rendering of Rem Koolhaas's intuitive approximation of the architecture of Manhattan. This drawing, according to the architect, celebrates Manhattan's "culture of congestion," presenting a relentless grid as Manhattan's overriding characteristic. Within this scheme, each city block is designated to embody a different value or philosophy, among these are many avant-garde movements previously thought of as incompatible. Each block, which is itself a city, is surmounted by a structure that represents its function or identity, for example, El Lissitzky's Lenin's Stand, Le Corbusier's Plan Voisin, or Wallace Harrison's Trylon and Perisphere for the 1939 New York World's Fair. Koolhaas's metaphor proposes an urban model in which unity accommodates heterogeneity.
The colorful concentric circles and circuitous lines that compose this painting evolved from Tanaka's performance Electric Dress, premiered a decade before, in which she wore two hundred blinking incandescent lightbulbs and tubes covered with red, blue, yellow, and green enamel paint. The painting vividly records the artist's gestural application of layers and skeins of multicolored acrylic paint on the canvas as it lay on the floor. Such a performative practice was typical of members of Gutai, a group of Japanese artists (including Tanaka) active between 1954 and 1972. Gutai means "embodiment" or "concrete"; through their experimental works, these artists aimed to bring materials together with the human spirit.
The color in Picture with an Archer is vibrantly alive—so much so that the scene is initially hard to make out. The patchwork surface seems to be shrugging off the task of describing a space or form. Kandinsky was the first modern artist to paint an entirely abstract composition; at the time of Picture with an Archer, that work was just a few months away.Kandinsky took his approach from Paris—particularly from the Fauves—but used it to create an Eastern landscape suffused with a folktale mood. Galloping under the trees of a wildly radiant countryside, a horseman turns in his saddle and aims his bow. In the left foreground stand men in Russian dress; behind them are a house, a domed tower, and two bulbous mountainy pinnacles, cousins of the bent–necked spire in the picture's center. Russian icons show similar rocks, which do exist in places in the East, but even so have a fantastical air. The lone rider with his archaic weapon, the traditional costumes and buildings, and the rural setting intensify the note of fantasy or poetic romance. There is a nostalgia here for a time or perhaps for a place: in 1909 Kandinsky was living in Germany, far from his native Russia. But in the glowing energy of the painting's color there is also excitement and promise.
The color of Grove Group, I was inspired by a stand of olive trees Marden saw in Greece. Working in a sensuous mix of oil paint and wax, he created an opaque and dense surface of substance and mass. At the same time, the painting seems weightless and luminescent—as if in building up the surface Marden trapped light within its layers. This painting is part of a series of five monochrome panels in related colors. While the modular, methodical design recalls strategies of Minimalism, Marden considers this painting to be "highly emotional."
The combination of flat painted surfaces and unexpected objects in this work, made in the year of Surrealism's founding, extends the strategy of collage that Ernst and fellow Dada artists had employed and marks what he described as "a kind of farewell to a technique." A red wooden gate affixed to the painted surface opens onto a deceptively pastoral scene dominated by blue sky. One female figure brandishes a small knife as though fending off the unassuming nightingale at left; another falls limp in a swoon; a man who lights atop the roof carries off a third, his hand outstretched to grab the knob fastened to the old-fashioned frame. Ernst gave two autobiographical references for the nightingale: the death of his sister in 1897 and a fevered hallucination he experienced in which the wood grain on a panel near his bed took on "successively the aspect of an eye, a nose, a bird's head, a menacing nightingale, a spinning top, and so on."
The components of the body displayed on sixteen monitors in this video installation are without any apparent distinction. They belong, however, to the artist. The arrangement of images on the monitors, which are of various sizes and stripped of their casings, does not follow the organization of the human body. Representations of Hill's ear and foot lie side by side; tucked modestly behind them is an image of his groin. Within this unassuming configuration, each raster invites meditation. For example, on one screen a thumb plays with the corner of a book page. By concentrating the viewer's attention on such a rudimentary activity, Hill causes the movement to take on the significance of a much larger event. The ceaselessness of the activity is an illusion in that each component exists only as a seamless loop lasting five to thirty seconds.Long, nervelike black wires attached to each monitor are bundled together like spinal cords. They snake along a shelf and disappear from view at the back of a recess. This electrical network emphasizes the presentation of body parts as extremities without a unifying torso. The hidden core to which the components of the body are attached serves as a metaphor for a human being's invisible, existential center: the soul. Reinforcing the living quality of the installation is its textured composition of ambient sound.
The content of this work is almost nothing: a gallery with bare walls in which the lights turn on and off in intervals of five seconds. This piece is based on a cycle of repetitive contradictions: each five-second phase is denied by the next. Creed controls the fundamental conditions ofvisibility within the gallery and redirects our attention to the walls that normally act as support and background for art objects. He treats the gallery as a medium to be molded, manipulating the existing lighting to create a new effect. Akin to John Cage's influential 1952 sound piece 4''33"—a four-minute, thirty-three-second composition of silence—Creed's witty, sensorial work subverts the normal spatial and temporal parameters of viewing experience.
The crowded city street—here, Dresden's fashionable Königstrasse—was a frequent subject for the German Expressionist group Die Brücke (The Bridge), an art collective Kirchner helped found in 1905. The group sought an authenticity of expression that its members felt had been lost with the innovations of modern life. Kirchner has violently heightened the colors of this urban scene, depicting its figures with masklike faces and vacant eyes in an attempt to capture the psychological alienation wrought by modernization. On the painting's reverse Kirchner painted a scene of nude women bathing in a natural landscape.  Such idyllic scenes were frequent subjects for Die Brücke artists. This one creates a fitting juxtaposition to the jarring city scene it mirrors.
The daring instability and torsion of The River are rare in Maillol's sculpture. Instead of trying to emulate the dynamism of twentieth-century life, as did so many artists of his time, Maillol usually sought an art of serenity and stillness, of classical nobility and simplicity. As late as 1937, in fact, he remarked, "For my taste, there should be as little movement as possible in sculpture." Yet within a year or so afterward he had conceived The River, a work in which the movement is almost reckless. Commissioned to create a monument to a notable pacifist, the French writer Henri Barbusse, Maillol conceived the sculpture as a work on the theme of war: a woman stabbed in the back, and falling. When the commission fell through, he transformed the idea into The River. In a departure from the usual conventions of monumental sculpture, the figure lies low to the ground and rests apparently precariously on the pedestal, even hanging below its edge. Twisting and turning, her raised arms suggesting the pressure of some powerful current, this woman is the personification of moving water.
The demise of the Soviet Union in 1991 spelled disaster for many citizens of Mikhailov's native Kharkov, in Ukraine. As the state apparatus collapsed, bleak predictability rapidly gave way to chaos and want. The photographer, whose earlier work includes sympathetic records of communal pastimes, responded with a bitter series that starkly evokes the squalor of desperation, drink, and despair. In the same years, but in another photographic mode altogether, he experimented with flagrantly staged political and sexual satires.A decade later, as a few made millions, the least fortunate Ukrainians were more desperate still. This untitled work belongs to Mikhailov's bold and risky series Case History, for which he paid Kharkov's outcasts to pose and perform. The best of his new photographs improbably blend the opposing poles of his art. No-nonsense realism and impromptu playacting seamlessly conspire in a persuasive theater of wrenching misery. Untitled. 1997-98
The designers seek to stimulate debate about the social, cultural, and ethical impact of emerging technologies. Their collaborators and clients range from cultural institutions to industrial research laboratories; their design objects are a medium for exploration and reflection on daily life in the age of advanced technology. Priscila Huggable Atomic Mushroom is part of the collection Design for Fragile Personalities in Anxious Times, prescription products that explore the psychological connections between objects and their users. The designers invite us to embrace our fears, quite literally: to take home a symbol of nuclear annihilation and cuddle it.
The design of the Richards Medical Research Building, as shown in this model, was a reaction against the prevalent idea in modern architecture that a single envelope of space should encompass all parts of a building. The distinction between what Kahn called "served" and "servant" spaces underlies the highly articulated massing and overall structure of the Richards Medical Research Building. Kahn explained that he conceived its design "in recognition of the realizations that science laboratories are studios and that the air to breathe should be away from the air to throw away." By placing the "servant" spaces—stairs, elevators, and air-handling towers—on the periphery, Kahn was also able to provide the "served" spaces—the laboratories—maximum flexibility by means of their uninterrupted floor areas. While Kahn developed a practical response to programmatic needs, he made aesthetic choices as well: the towers echo the lively silhouette of the neighboring turn-of-the-century dormitories.The model shows the innovative structural system of precast, post-tensioned concrete that Kahn designed with structural engineer August Komendant. The clear division between the concrete structural members (the trusses and cantilevered beams) and the brick-and-glass infill is a further indication of the hierarchical order underlying Kahn's work.
The design of these apartment towers for St. Mark's-in-the-Bouwerie in New York City stemmed from Wright's vision for Usonia, a new American culture based on the synthesis of architecture and landscape. The organic "tap-root" structural system resembles a tree, with a central concrete and steel load-bearing core rooted in the earth, from which floor plates are cantilevered like branches. This system frees the building of load-bearing interior partitions and supports a modulated glass curtain wall for increased natural illumination. Floor plates are rotated axially to generate variation from one level to the next and to distinguish between living and sleeping spaces in the duplex apartments. The three towers on the triangular park site are positioned apart from other tall buildings to avoid creating the dark urban canyons that Wright detested. Although the St. Mark's project was never realized, its concepts were materialized thirty years later in Wright's H. C. Price Company Tower in Bartlesville, Oklahoma.
The design represented by this modest, cardboard study model of a house for the architect's mother is deceptively simple. The front facade of Venturi's design, for example, has the elements of a conventional house: large gable, chimney, front door, and windows. Yet throughout the building, the adept juxtaposition of big and little elements and the intentional distortion of symmetry establish a richness of meaning and perceptual ambiguity that make the Vanna Venturi residence one of the most important houses of the second half of the twentieth century.The design for the house coincided in 1961–62 with Venturi's writing of Complexity and Contradiction in Architecture (published by The Museum of Modern Art in 1966). This brilliant architectural critique, supported by numerous illustrations of historical buildings, sought to overturn the limitations and reductive simplicity of orthodox modern architecture. Describing his own mannerist inclusive sensibility as "both–and," as opposed to "either–or," he wrote: "If the source of the both–and phenomenon is contradiction, its basis is hierarchy, which yields several levels of meanings among elements with varying values. It can include elements that are both good and awkward, big and little, closed and open, continuous and articulated, round and square, structural and spatial. An architecture which includes varying levels of meaning breeds ambiguity and tension." The Vanna Venturi House is one of the earliest demonstrations of the architect's highly influential ideas.
The Deutsche Werkbund, a forward-looking association of manufacturers, designers, and architects that included Margarete Schütte-Lihotzky and Lilly Reich, helped position Germany at the forefront of the development of the rational kitchen. An international exhibition organized under its auspices in 1927 took the form of a modern housing estate, exemplifying an admiration for scientific rationale and efficiency. Architects collaborated with home-economics expert Erna Meyer on the design of many of the kitchens, including the example featured in this poster.
The digital revolution and the introduction of the Macintosh computer in the mid-1980s made the construction and deconstruction of typographical elements easier than it had been in the past.  Embracing technology that was growing exponentially more sophisticated, designers realized more and more complex typographic experiment.  Neville Brody's FF Blur is one example. Influenced by the late-1970s punk rock aesthetic, Brody began his career at the London College of Printing and later designed record covers for various artists while art director of Fetish Records. The letterforms of FF Blur—fuzzy around the edges like an out-of-focus photograph—seem to celebrate their own imperfection, speaking to his unique background. FF Blur resembles type that has been reproduced cheaply on a Xerox machine—degenerated through copying and recopying.
The Divan Japonais, a cabaret in Montmartre, an artists' quarter in Paris, was newly redecorated in 1893 with fashionable Japanese motifs and lanterns. Its owner, Édouard Fournier, commissioned this poster—depicting singers, dancers, and patrons—from Toulouse-Lautrec to attract customers to the opening of his nightclub. In the immediate foreground, Toulouse-Lautrec depicts two of his good friends in the audience: on the right, Édouard Dujardin, an art critic and founder of the literary journal Revue wagnérienne, and, at the center, the famous cancan dancer Jane Avril, whose elegant black silhouette dominates the scene. In the background, another well-known entertainer of the period, the singer Yvette Guilbert, performs on stage. Although her head is abruptly cropped in this composition—reflecting the influence of photography and Japanese prints—Guilbert was immediately known to contemporary patrons by the dramatic gesture of her signature long black gloves.Lithographed posters proliferated during the 1890s due to technical advances in color printing and the relaxation of laws restricting the placement of posters. Dance halls, café-concerts, and festive street life invigorated nighttime activities. Toulouse-Lautrec's brilliant posters, made as advertisements, captured the vibrant appeal of the prosperous Belle Époque.
The DIY Gamer Kit allows users to build their own handheld gaming console and either code their own game or download games from an online library. Technology Will Save Us produces several DIY kits focused on topics such as music, play, gardening, and cycling, inserting skills like coding and soldering into enjoyable daily activities. These objects reflect the deep and central role technology and interface design now play in our everyday lives, and the new importance of “maker culture”—technology-oriented, often grassroots, craft initiatives—in the design landscape.
The drawing is a lens that reveals otherwise imperceptible aspects; it's a method for understanding how things can change and evolve and serve, not for crystallizing a form in a definitive way but to demonstrate the possibilities of what it can become. —Zaha Hadid  At once a representation of a proposal and an investigation into architecture, Zaha Hadid's drawings for the Parc de la Villette, Paris, present drawing as a way of thinking. These drawings—six from a series of twenty—form a series of overlays that mimic Hadid's conception for the project: stacked planes of uninterrupted space that hover over the landscape. They were produced for a competion sponsored by the French government in 1982, and eventually won by Bernard Tschumi in March 1983, that entailed designing a park for the twenty-first century. The park was to be located in a terraine vague, a 125-acre site that had once housed a group of slaughterhouses in the northeast corner of Paris, between the outer fringes of the city and the peripheral highway that borders it to the north. Hadid proposed a series of elevated mobile gardens, which were to move in random or controlled orbits and change with the seasons—a virtual galaxy of kiosks, picnic areas, restaurants, and gardens. One might experience this park the way one sees an architectural section—as a vertical slice through the landscape, where one would encounter unforeseen and infinite juxtapositions of space. Nature in this sense became an artificial construct, and the landscape, rather than a picturesque paysage, a laboratory of discovery. These elements of surprise are the point of both Hadid's project and her drawings. Just as the mechanized movement of the gardens becomes a kind of calligraphy on the ground, Hadid's precise mark-making becomes a form of research into the possibilities of architecture. Her preferred method of black and white drawing explores elemental constructs, and when she does use color, rather than being decorative, it reveals the mood and quality of the space. Hadid is perhaps best known as a theoretical architect; the Vitra Fire Station, Weil am Rhein, completed in 1993, was her first built work, and the Terminus Nord, a transportation center in Strasbourg, is scheduled to be completed early in 2002. Her affinity with the Russian Constructivists and Suprematists of the 1920s lies less with formal drawing conventions than in an attitude of experimentation without need for conclusion, and in an expression of hope for new forms of architecture that go beyond what we know.
The drawing Lebensmittel (1 Tüte) belongs to Immendorff's "Lidl" activities—a series of politically charged performances and environments that commenced with Immendorff's arrest in January 1968 after appearing in front of the parliament building in Bonn dragging a small wooden block painted in the colors of the German flag from his ankle. Soon after, he and his friends opened the student–run, professor–free Lidl Academy, which offered classes for children and performances for visitors.
The earliest binary switches were marked with an (I and an O to denote, respectively, a closed electrical circuit (device on) and an open circuit (device off).(In 1973, these two symbols were combined into one now-familiar icon, the official definition of which was, initially, “standby setting.” Thirty years later, an international committee of scientists and engineers undertook a three-year research project, ultimately recommending in 2002 that this combined symbol should henceforth denote its more commonly accepted understanding: “power.”
The earliest computer games were programmed using ASCII (American Standard Code for Information Interchange). The developers of Dwarf Fortress, a single-player fantasy game, purposely forwent subsequent developments in computer graphics, choosing its retro aesthetic. Rather than relying on a naturalistic three-dimensional interface, the game generates its own complex world, which the player can modify, out of classic two-dimensional tiled building blocks and text-based graphics. The goal is to build a viable dwarf settlement in a vast user-generated world of continents and seas. Every terrain has multiple levels, on the surface and below it, with more than two hundred rocks and minerals that players can mine and make tools from. In order to succeed, players must forge alliances with competing civilizations, consider how a wide range of factors (including natural resources and weather conditions) will influence their dwarf colonies, and learn to navigate an abstract world.
The Eliat House drew upon ideas Mies developed in his celebrated Concrete Country House project of 1924, which explored the potential of reinforced concrete construction and incorporated the long, horizontal ribbon windows and flat roofs that would become trademarks of the emerging modernist style. The Eliat House's centrifugal configuration contains clustered rooms that extend into the landscape like spokes; this arrangement of architectural volumes in relation to generous outside spaces gives the complex a stately presence. This colorful drawing privileges the natural landscape, showing greenery cascading down the exterior walls of the house. The influence of Japanese art principles on the landscape rendering and the subordination of building to site reflect the influence of Frank Lloyd Wright, whose work was published in Germany by Berlin publisher Ernst Wasmuth in 1910. The austere volumes and landscaping of the Eliat House also recall the volumetric expression of Wright's Textile Block houses, which were set within the lush environs of southern California.
The emblematic silhouette of a drug addict's contorted forearm was the key to Bass's campaign linking poster and album cover design to the film's title sequence. Bass wanted to convey "the distortion and jaggedness, the disconnectedness and disjointedness of the addict's life." Music was important to the film's narrative, the main character being a downbeat drummer played by Frank Sinatra. Working on a tight production schedule Bernstein composed his music at the same time that Bass was creating the title. Bass explained, "He gave me a beat, 'the counts' as we say, and I designed to that beat."
The emergence of the Art Nouveau style toward the end of the nineteenth century resulted from a search for a new aesthetic that was not based on historical or classical models. The sinuous, organic lines of Guimard's design and the stylized, giant stalks drooping under the weight of what seem to be swollen tropical flowers, but are actually amber glass lamps, make this a quintessentially Art Nouveau piece. His designs for this famous entrance arch and two others were intended to visually enhance the experience of underground travel on the new subway system for Paris.Paris was not the first city to implement an underground system (London already had one), but the approaching Paris Exposition of 1900 accelerated the need for an efficient and attractive means of mass transportation. Although Guimard never formally entered the competition for the design of the system's entrance gates that had been launched by the Compagnie du Métropolitain in 1898, he won the commission with his avant-garde schemes, all using standardized cast-iron components to facilitate manufacture, transport, and assembly. While Parisians were at first hesitant in their response to Guimard's use of an unfamiliar vocabulary, his Métro gates, installed throughout the city, effectively brought the Art Nouveau style, formerly associated with the luxury market, into the realm of popular culture.
The End evokes a split second of film projection on the big screen. The effect of instantaneity is enhanced by the imperfections and vertical lines in the gray field, which are intended to resemble the tiny scratches, scrapes, and particles of dust that can mar film and projector lenses. The fuzzy, out-of-focus contours of the airbrushed letters, split between the top and bottom of the canvas, suggest that something is amiss in the projection of this particular movie reel; the illusion of continuity is not being created. This "illustration of an out-of-sync mode," as the artist has described it, refers to the past (the Old English typescript recalls medieval manuscripts and the Bible) and the future — once the technology of celluloid film is obsolete, if not totally forgotten, will the painting be recognizable? The title and subject of the work remind us that the continuum of time is composed of the momentary; a flash of ending differentiates past from present and present from future, and a final, apocalyptic end would render time meaningless.
The eruption of Mount St. Helens in southwest Washington state on May 18, 1980, provided Gohlke with a challenging opportunity for which his earlier work had prepared him well. At that time he was working on Aftermath, a project in his hometown of Wichita Falls, Texas. A tornado had struck the city in April 1979, and Gohlke recorded the devastation in a series of photographs. In June 1980 he returned to the site of each picture to measure the progress of human reconstruction and natural regeneration.The Texas tornado was a powerful event, but the eruption of the Washington volcano invoked nature's force on a much grander scale. In the summer of 1981, Gohlke embarked upon an ambitious series of photographic campaigns at Mount St. Helens. He returned in 1982, 1983, 1984, and finally in 1990, working on the ground and from the air.In 1983 Gohlke wrote about the project: "Mount St. Helens is in part a marvelous laboratory in which to examine the limits of photographic information. . . . [It] provides a theater in which the sublime can be experienced without embarrassment or irony. I feel that I encounter at Mount St. Helens, in a concentrated form, all the issues that inform my work. The magnitude of the phenomena I am attempting to describe forces me continually to respond to what I cannot grasp, to abandon certainties, and to try to describe what I cannot yet understand."
The essence of New Vision photography is pointedly expressed in this picture, commonly known as The Constructor, which puts the act of seeing at center stage. Lissitzky's hand, holding a compass, is superimposed on a shot of his head that explicitly highlights his eye: insight, it expresses, is passed through the eye and transmitted to the hand, and through it to the tools of production. Devised from six different exposures, the picture merges Lissitzky's personae as photographer (eye) and constructor of images (hand) into a single likeness. Contesting the idea that straight photography provides a single, unmediated truth, Lissitzky held instead that montage, with its layering of one meaning over another, impels the viewer to reconsider the world. It thus marks a conceptual shift in the understanding of what a picture can be.
The extraordinary luminous watercolors that constitute the Orange Sound series are visual poems that give shape to what is formless: light and water. Although Vinciarelli trained as an architect, her imaginary universe respects no program, function, or client. We view spaces that do not exist, except on paper, where an invisible light source creates the illusion of placid reflections on a changing volume of water contained in a vessel or anonymous architectural structure. In Vinciarelli's virtuoso handling, the transparent, glowing quality of the watercolor medium conveys transcendent feelings. Void of extraneous details such as ordinary things, human presence, and recognizable architectural elements and signs, the compositions assume metaphysical qualities. The lateral symmetry in each work provides a sense of calm balance and control (Vinciarelli suggests it provides a "system of rules") that serves as a connective thread between each drawing in the series. This seriality suggests narrative, and the drawings are numbered one through seven, but the sequence is somewhat random; Vinciarelli has likened it to the notes of a musical scale, but just as the notes in a scale are played in different orders to create musical passages, the drawings too can be viewed in varying sequences. In whatever order they appear, the changing tonal variations from one drawing to the next—the shifting qualities of light and shadow in the spaces, on the surfaces, and on the changing volumes of water, with their mesmerizing reflections—will stimulate feelings and imply a fluid narrative. The warm orange and ocher tones of Orange Sound recall remembered landscapes, perhaps particularly the American Southwest, where Vinciarelli spent time with the artist Donald Judd. She clearly admires Judd's serial Minimalist sculpture, and art in a similar vein. Throughout her work, which exists primarily on paper, Vinciarelli has pushed the traditional boundaries between art and architecture by exploring the relationship between the two disciplines. Her abiding interest in formal typologies, and her investigations of the essentially immeasurable qualities of light, space, and reflection, suggest both a realm of the sublime and a place where meaningful architecture can begin.
The figures in this drawing are made of the tools of their trade: T-squares and drafting triangles form the skeletal structures of these two mathematicians. These implements were likely familiar to de Chirico, whose father was an engineer, and the mannequins built from them resemble the poseable wooden models the artist would have encountered in his own academic training. However, the rationality of mathematics and of the Italian classicism that influenced de Chirico's visual style is undermined by the mood of enigmatic disquiet that characterizes the scene. That the two tiny figures in the distance seem to be human only heightens the uncanny quality of the central armatures.
The first major installation produced by Soviet artist Ilya Kabakov after he immigrated to the West in 1987 was entitled Ten Characters. The work included ten rooms devoted to fictional narratives of characters living in isolation, and relate to the artist's alienation from his unfamiliar cultural surroundings. Behind this door is one of the rooms. Evocative of an abandoned communal Soviet apartment, the dimly lit room includes a chair facing a large white board. The accompanying text tells of the absent protagonist's transcendental experience. To escape his melancholy surroundings, he perceives the miniature, faintly rendered man on the white board as himself flying into an infinite depth of blinding white light and fog. Ultimately, this is tempered by the character's doubt about his perceptions, and he longs for the presence of a third person to validate them.
The first of dozens Cornell made in honor of famous ballerinas, this box pays homage to Marie Taglioni, an acclaimed nineteenth-century Italian dancer who, according to legend, kept an imitation ice cube in her jewelry box to commemorate dancing in the snow at the behest of a Russian highwayman. The box is infused with erotic undertones—both in the tactile nature of the glass cubes, velvet, and rhinestone necklace (purchased at a Woolworth's dime store in New York) and in the incident itself, in which Taglioni reportedly performed on an animal skin placed across the snowy road. Although he spent his entire artistic career living and working in Queens, New York, Cornell drew inspiration from the European art he saw at the Julien Levy Gallery—the first in the United States to exhibit Surrealist work—and often inspired the European Surrealists in turn. In a press release for a 1939 show by Cornell at the Levy Gallery, Salvador Dalí heralded the artist's work as "the only truly Surrealist work to be found in America."
The first saucepan-style pressure cooker was launched at the 1939 World's Fair in New York, and rapidly gained popularity throughout the United States and Europe. Apart from enabling reduced cooking times, the product's main selling point was the way it maintained food's vitamin and mineral content. Landers, Frary & Clark had used the trade name "Universal" since the 1890s and manufactured an increasingly diverse range of metal products for the modern kitchen under the moniker, from mousetraps and percolators to can openers, electric ranges, and aluminum cookware.
The five sequences that compose autoreverse show decomposing and recomposing machines made from electric appliances. RS 570, X1, 97 C, FHW 64 D, and AM A202 unfold and reassemble, accompanied by what Kirps calls “electro-techno-mechanic” sounds, to reveal their surreal and redundant functions. “For autoreverse, I initially searched for elements to recycle,” the designer has explained. “I collected an enormous stockpile of objects, which I then photographed from every angle.” Among the accumulations are pieces of household and office equipment, much of it now obsolete.
The footprints at the top of Diver, the handprints at bottom and center, and the arrows, powerfully evoke the physical movement of a dive. But Diver also provides a metaphor for Johns's artistic process: we are invited to immerse ourselves in the rich surface of his thoughts. A dive can be seen as a suspended moment between life and death (the two handprints can also be read as a skull)—and this work has been interpreted as, in part, an homage to the poet Hart Crane, who dived to his death from a ship in 1932.
The foremost sculptor of the Abstract Expressionist generation, David Smith created steel sculptures using welding techniques he learned while employed at a Studebaker factory in Indiana. Not dedicated solely to sculpture, Smith was a devoted painter, draftsman, and printmaker, and he saw these practices as integral to his art-making process. Throughout his career, his works on paper served a multiplicity of roles: as preparatory drawings, sketches after existing sculptures, independent compositions, and exercises to keep his artistic skills honed. He used printmaking as another form of drawing, which he once referred to as the "life force of the painter." Although he made thirty-six printed compositions, in many instances only one or two impressions of each exist. Smith arrived in New York in 1926 and enrolled in classes at the Art Students League. He began making prints soon after, creating linoleum cuts of street scenes and landscapes. His exposure to African sculpture and to the art of the European avant-garde had an impact on his work, as seen in a series of Surrealist-inspired etchings of the 1940s. In 1952 Smith made his first lithographs. A natural fit, lithography allowed him to work in a comfortable and familiar fashion by using a brush to paint on the stone as he would on a sheet of paper. Six lithographs made at this time bear the closest affinity to Smith's drawings, and he signed them as he did his contemporary drawings, with the date and Greek version of his initials visible at the top left center of this work. In this print, Smith created the sense of a correspondence letter whose contents are just out of reach, written in a hieroglyphic or pictographic language that combines the suggestive abstract and non-specific figurative aspects of his sculpture.
The formal structure of Mitchell's paintings, and their physical quality and sense of process, are extensions of Abstract Expressionism, but in some respects Mitchell challenged the conventional wisdom of the New York School. (She also left New York, joining Sam Francis and others of her generation in Paris.) Abstract though her paintings are, she saw them as dealing with nature—with the outside world, that is, rather than the inner one. In fact she shunned self-expression as such; her work, she said, was "about landscape, not about me." Nor did she consider herself an "action painter," since she worked more from thought than from instinct. "The freedom in my work is quite controlled," Mitchell said, "I don't close my eyes and hope for the best."Ladybug abuts pure colors with colors that mix on the canvas, dense paint with liquid drips, flatness with relief. Empty areas at the work's edges suggest a basic ground, which seems to continue under the tracery of color; but the white patches here are actually more pigment, and shift in intensity and texture. Struggling out between short, firm, jaggedly arranged strokes of blue, mauve, green, brown, and red, the whites aerate this energized structure, appearing ambiguously both under and over it. No landscape is evident; Mitchell set out not to describe nature but "to paint what it leaves me with."Ladybug. 1957
The foursquare geometry of Cage II and the purity of its medium exemplify the Minimal art of the 1960s, an art of system and order. Although the title is descriptive of the work's form, it is also a pun. The work is a reiteration of the artist's earlier sculpture Statue of John Cage, named after the well-known composer, whose theories on modern music and compositional structure influenced de Maria and other artists of his generation.
The free-form construction and orange hue of the Corallo Armchair mimic the natural structure and color of coral, the material that inspired it. Short fragments of steel wire are hand-bent and welded each onto the next, much like the budding and branching process by which coral grows underwater. A coat of epoxy paint protects the steel and seduces the eye with dazzling color. The result is a highly expressive sculptural seat perfectly suited for indoor or outdoor use.Wire is hardly a new material in furniture design. Charles Eames and Harry Bertoia recognized the mass-manufacturing potential of the material in their classic chairs of the early 1950s, and their rational form-follows-function approach to structural applications of steel wire continues to this day in the designs of Enzo Mari and Alfredo Haeberli. The Corallo Armchair distinguishes itself from this tradition and allies itself with a very contemporary design concern: emotional and psychological appeal. The Campana brothers avoid rectilinear, geometric construction suited for mass production in favor of a liberated, vital tangle of sensuous lines that make a virtue of the charming imperfections created by the maker's hand. The evocation of coral lends the chair an appearance of having blossomed organically through its own DNA-encoded growth patterns, completely free of the strictures of mass production. Indeed, no two Corallo chairs are alike.
The Generator, an early investigation into artificially intelligent architecture, was designed with no specific program, but only a desired end-effect, in mind. The project was commissioned by Howard Gilman for a site at the Gilman Paper Corporation's White Oak Plantation in Florida to provide a facility to house dance, theater, and visiting artists. Cedric Price explored a type of architecture that, like medicine, would operate less as a remedy for the ills of society and more as a preventive system, creating flexible conditions previously thought impossible within a socially beneficial environment. This complicated project, for which many drawings and diagrams were made, was essentially a system of cubelike elements that could be moved and combined with others or with additional elements to create temporary structures for a rehearsal or performance space, housing, or just contemplation within a lush natural setting. It was intended to operate by means of a central computer with which a visitor would combine any of 150 of the Generator's four-by-four meter, fully serviced, air-conditioned cubes, or walls, screens, gangways, and communications channels into a structure. The computer would encourage the visitor to continually refine and improve his or her design. In fact, change and artistic freedom are the underlying ideas of the Generator; they were considered prerequisites, and the computer was to be programmed to make unsolicited alterations should the framework remain static. Price's intricate scheme to provide an environment dedicated to nurturing the arts was never built.
The geometry of the Pyramat Erosion Mat helps stabilize soil and bolster vegetation even on the roughest of terrains. This three-dimensional woven geotextile matrix is made of polypropylene monofilament yarns woven into a uniform design of pyramid-like cells. The mat interlocks and strengthens vegetative root systems, naturally reinforcing the soil and protecting the surface against erosion.
The geometry of this composition, made two years after Mondrian moved from Holland to Paris, is directly based on sketches of partially demolished buildings, with exposed floors, chimneys, and patches of wallpaper. Mondrian believed that horizontal and vertical lines, such as those he used here, expressed an underlying, universal order.
The German-born artist Wolfgang Schulze, who used the pseudonym Wols, moved to Paris in 1932 and initially took up photography, producing disturbing Surrealist images of human body parts, dead animals, and other subjects. As a German expatriate, he was imprisoned in the South of France for fourteen months after the outbreak of World War II in 1939. While in detention he made drawings and watercolors depicting fantastic landscapes and amorphous faces and figures that reflect the influence of children's art and the work of Paul Klee. After his release, Wols hid in Cassis, in unoccupied France. The artist never completely recovered from his war-related traumas, and the next decade, the last of his short life, was complicated by poverty, illness, and alcoholism. In 1945 Wols returned to Paris and began making small, abstract paintings using the automatic lines and drips of Surrealism in compositions typically based around a heavy central mass. The free-associative, hallucinatory quality of his work provides a link between that prewar movement and the gestural abstraction known generally as Art informel  that took hold in the years after. Wols was immediately viewed as a pioneer of this latter style, and the agitated nature of his markings seemed to give visual form to the existential anxiety of the postwar era.Wols's prints, a total of fifty-three drypoints created between 1945 and his death in 1951, comprise a distinct yet integral segment of his oeuvre. Nearly half were made as illustrations for books by Surrealist and Existential writers who befriended him, including Jean-Paul Sartre, Tristan Tzara, and René de Solier. The process of scratching directly on the plate with a drypoint needle was well-suited to Wols's compulsive style. The thin, scratchy lines with their characteristic burr capture all the microscopic details of his barbed, nestlike microcosms and the fuzzy tendrils of his insectlike forms.
The German-born artist Wolfgang Schulze, who used the pseudonym Wols, moved to Paris in 1932 and initially took up photography, producing disturbing Surrealist images of human body parts, dead animals, and other subjects. As a German expatriate, he was imprisoned in the South of France for fourteen months after the outbreak of World War II in 1939. While in detention he made drawings and watercolors depicting fantastic landscapes and amorphous faces and figures that reflect the influence of children's art and the work of Paul Klee. After his release, Wols hid in Cassis, in unoccupied France. The artist never completely recovered from his war-related traumas, and the next decade, the last of his short life, was complicated by poverty, illness, and alcoholism. In 1945 Wols returned to Paris and began making small, abstract paintings using the automatic lines and drips of Surrealism in compositions typically based around a heavy central mass. The free-associative, hallucinatory quality of his work provides a link between that prewar movement and the gestural abstraction known generally as Art informel that took hold in the years after. Wols was immediately viewed as a pioneer of this latter style, and the agitated nature of his markings seemed to give visual form to the existential anxiety of the postwar era. Wols's prints, a total of fifty-three drypoints created between 1945 and his death in 1951, comprise a distinct yet integral segment of his oeuvre. Nearly half were made as illustrations for books by Surrealist and Existential writers who befriended him, including Jean-Paul Sartre, Tristan Tzara, and René de Solier. The process of scratching directly on the plate with a drypoint needle was well-suited to Wols's compulsive style. The thin, scratchy lines with their characteristic burr capture all the microscopic details of his barbed, nestlike microcosms and the fuzzy tendrils of his insectlike forms.
The Handkerchief chair, designed for the Knoll furniture company by Lella and Massimo Vignelli and available in a range of colors, offers a playful take on the traditional stacking office chair. The flowing shape of its synthetic seat is ergonomic and suggests weightlessness, like a handkerchief floating in the breeze. The fruitful, collaborative relationship between husband and wife began in 1961, and the couple founded Vignelli Associates in the United States in 1971. Their work together has encompassed designs for graphics (most notably corporate identity and way–finding systems) as well as interiors, furniture, and industrial products, all executed with an elegant simplicity.
The high scaffold in Watchtower could be a hunters' blind but also whispers of the guards' post—perhaps on the East-West border within a still-divided Germany, perhaps on a concentration-camp fence. Polke stenciled this skeletal frame in a series of paintings begun in 1984, varying the imagery around it. Here, he clothes the watchtower in a baleful phosphorescent glow, which sends up a hollow arm to catch the tower's top. In the 1960s Polke had produced what he called "Capitalist Realism," a German variant of Pop art. An element of Pop survives in Watchtower's support, made of commercial yard goods printed, respectively, with a cheerful floral and with a weave or mesh. Refusing consistency, however, Polke combines these with both the sinister tower image and an abstraction (which, with its alternately smooth and spidery lines, suggests more than one painting process). Images and styles from different eras, and associated with different moods and intentions, jostle and layer in the same work—a "postmodern" approach that Polke pioneered, and that a variety of artists explored in the 1980s. Visual layering brings a layering of sense. In Watchtower, painted and printed images compete for visibility; if the watchtower is haunted and haunting, the prints connote a banal dailiness. It is as though different registers of consciousness and of memory were struggling for resolution.
The House of the Hanged Man, with its rough, geometric wooden form, is representative of William Tucker's works from the early 1980s, occupying a great deal of space with a small amount of surface area. The hanged man of the title is nowhere to be found; rather, the sculpture serves as a stage for his implied presence.
The idea for The Bus Driver came to Segal on a late-evening bus from New York to New Jersey. The driver was grim, sullen, and arrogant, and Segal caught himself thinking, "My God, dare I trust my life to this prig?" Soon afterward he found a derelict bus in a junkyard and hacked out the driver's platform. Incorporated in The Bus Driver, this metal armature pens in a plaster figure-a life cast. (The model was Segal's brother-in-law.)When they first appeared, in the early 1960s, Segal's plaster molds of people in fragments of real environments were considered Pop art, since they described the everyday life of public places. But where Pop often focused on mass-media images and mass-produced objects, Segal was interested in individuals, their gestures, statures, stances, and also their inner, psychological or spiritual condition. He often left his plaster molds unpainted, valuing their whiteness for "its special connotations of disembodied spirit, inseparable from the fleshy corporeal details of the figure." In the bus driver (who has been likened to Charon, the ferryman of Greek myth who guides dead souls to the underworld), Segal saw "the dignity of helplessness—a massive, strong man, surrounded by machinery, and yet basically a very unheroic man trapped by forces larger than himself that he couldn't control and least of all understand."
The imagery in this work, executed following a trip to Northern Italy and Sicily in 1931, may be related to the historical built structures Klee encountered on his travels, while its formal elements are akin to the early Christian and Byzantine mosaics he likely also saw. Like the colored tesserae that compose a mosaic, the small strokes of muted color that cover this canvas remain independent on the white ground while together they subtly evoke vegetation and architectural forms—gabled roofs, turrets, and walls.
The imposing idols seen here reflect the figural style of Oceanic sculptures that Gauguin had seen during his travels. To create these prints, the artist first cut his composition into a block of hard wood, delineating the figures with abrupt, gouged lines. Then he selectively inked and wiped the block before printing the image on a sheet of paper. The dark and mysterious areas of the composition create an aura of the exotic and the spiritual.The Gods (Te Atua) is one of ten woodcuts executed by Gauguin after his return to Paris from Tahiti in 1893. They were intended as illustrations to a text that he planned to publish about his experiences in the South Seas. With this book, which he titled Noa Noa (the Tahitian word for fragrance), he hoped to provide a background for the public's understanding of his new Symbolist paintings.Gauguin had left for Tahiti in 1891 to escape the pressures of modern-day life and to seek an unspoiled society in tune with nature. There he painted a number of important canvases inspired by his Tahitian experiences. He made his second trip to the South Seas in 1894; but the  Noa Noa project was never realized as the book he had planned. He died in the Marquesas Islands in 1903.
The iPod, a portable hard drive initially used exclusively as an MP3 player, exponentially expanded the typical capacity of a music device: it was significantly smaller, cleaner, and more intuitive than any similar player at the time of its release in 2001. The device's data and its power supply are administered and transferred through a USB cord to a base computer or other power outlet, thus eliminating the need for any collateral, detachable parts besides the earphones. The first-generation iPod has substantially influenced the quality and elegance not only of portable music devices, but of electronic products in general.
Their spiky tentacles reaching toward each other, the male and female forms in this bronze sculpture are locked in violent opposition. "It is nearly impossible to make people understand each other," Martins said, suggesting the source of the aggressive interaction depicted here. Between 1944 and 1949, she made several versions of this sculpture in different sizes and materials. When a plaster version was exhibited in 1946, a Time magazine reviewer said it "looked like a disagreement between two anthropomorphic snowstorms."
The Japanese Footbridge is among Monet's last paintings of this subject, made between 1920 and 1922. Twenty-five years earlier, in the late 1890s, the footbridge provided the subject of Monet's first series of paintings of his pond at Giverny. While the paintings in the earlier series are more naturalistic in style, the later works feature dense swirls and loose strokes of color that almost obscure the form of the bridge. These later paintings also feature a fiery palette of maroons, rusts, and oranges unique within Monet's body of work.
The Japanese word aibo, which means "pal," is also an acronym of sorts for Artificial Intelligence Robot, an electronic pet released by Sony in 1999. This robot has the ability to react to its environment and learn: it is trainable, responds to touch, and is programmed to simulate the behavior of a living animal (sit, stay, come) and perform certain tasks, such as appointment reminders and e-mail notification.
The Jeep, designed for the United States Army during World War II, is a pragmatic, no-nonsense tool. When MoMA first exhibited one, in 1951, the curator described it as a "sturdy sardine can on wheels." Its flat body rides high above the ground for clearance over rough terrain, and the gas tank has been tucked up under the driver's seat. The overall height is low, and the windshield can be folded down on the hood. The lack of doors makes it easy to hop in and out of. Basic shelter is provided by a foldaway canvas hood, and there is no attempt to conceal the nuts and bolts, inside or out. The Jeep's standardized parts are designed for quick assembly and replacement; the top and the wheels can be removed and stacked, and the cars can be arranged like boxes for easy transport. This version is slightly larger and faster than the original. Known by its model number M38A1—it's considered by many the best military Jeep ever built.
The Kansai Airport was conceived as an organic complex shaped by the circulatory flows of passengers and air. The building, which sits on a mile–long man–made island in the Bay of Osaka, incorporates a central volume running the length of the island, flanked by two transverse wings. This central corridor, lined with plantings, guides one hundred thousand passengers a day through the terminal from the land–facing side of the island to the runways, continuously orienting them relative to their surroundings through views to the outside. Pictured here is a study model for a structural truss that spans the length of the terminal's central spine.Streams of air are a major conceptual force in the formal articulation of the terminal. Ventilation air is channeled passively from the passenger entry through to the runways by a suspended skin that wraps the underside of the structure, eliminating the need for enclosed air ducts. The roof's form emerged from intensive studies of the flow of air currents through the building; topological geometries never before applied to architecture were used to define its complex curvature. The terminal's fluid structural form merges cutting–edge technology with nature in a synthesized whole.
The Landlok Erosion Mat, with its sturdy, three-dimensional matrix of black polyolefin, helps plants resist the stresses typical of steep topography. It provides long-term stability and more than twice the erosion protection than plant life does on its own by interlocking with developing roots and anchoring itself to the soil surface.
The landscapes Picasso produced in southern Spain in 1909 were critical to the development of the early Cubist style, in which subjects are rendered from multiple perspectives using faceted forms and simplified geometric shapes. In The Reservoir, Horta de Ebro (titled using the artist's name for the town of Horta de San Joan), Picasso used interlocking planes to fuse the land's rugged topography with the terracotta and stucco architecture of the village. The spatial ambiguity characteristic of Cubism is evident: the steep hillside suggests an upward gaze while the curved shape at the bottom—a cistern—reveals a downward view into a reflection on water.
The landscapes Picasso produced in southern Spain in 1909 were critical to the development of the early Cubist style, in which subjects are rendered from multiple perspectives using faceted forms and simplified geometric shapes. In The Reservoir, Horta de Ebro (titled using the artist's name for the town of Horta de San Joan), the artist used interlocking planes to fuse the land's rugged topography with the terracotta and stucco architecture of the village. The spatial ambiguity characteristic of Cubism is evident: the steep hillside suggests an upward gaze while the curved shape at the bottom—a cistern—reveals a downward view into a reflection on water.
The LCM (Lounge Chair Metal) was conceived by Eames, who, with his wife and professional partner, Ray, formed one of the most influential design teams of the twentieth century. First produced in 1946, the LCM and its companion, the DCM (Dining Chair Metal), met with great commercial success and have become icons of modern design. The LCM's molded–plywood seat and back sit on a chrome–plated steel frame, with rubber shock mounts in between. That the back and seat are separate pieces simplified production, while also providing visual interest.Together with Eero Saarinen, Eames had first experimented with bent plywood for a group of prize–winning designs they submitted to the 1940 competition "Organic Design in Home Furnishings," organized by The Museum of Modern Art. These, however, proved difficult to manufacture, and most were upholstered for comfort. Intent on producing high–quality objects at economical manufacturing costs, the Eameses devoted the better part of the next five years to refining the technique of molding plywood to create thin shells with compound curves. The chair was initially manufactured by the Evans Products Company; in 1949 Herman Miller Inc. bought the rights to produce it.
The LifePort Kidney Transporter provides an alternative to the standard cooler-and-ice method of organ storage and transportation. The perfusion system, housed in a case light enough for one person to carry, pumps the kidney with a liquid solution to improve its condition prior to transplantation, doubling its storage life and increasing the quality an quantity of available organs for transplant. There are almost 100,000 Americans in need of a kidney transplant; this device can potentially remove tens of thousands of patients from the waiting list and save the health-care system more than $1 billion annually.
The light from the LEDs hidden in the mound of concrete that forms the base of this lamp travels along the acrylic rod as if the latter were a super-sized optical fiber. The rod is bent into the shape of a walking stick to deliver light downward, toward a table or the floor. It provides ambient light as well as a dimmable, focused, directional beam.
The Light Light Chair, weighing a mere two pounds, is built with a Nomex honeycomb core and a carbon-fiber surface. The direction of the fiber is strategically placed to counteract the thrust transmitted by the weight of a sitter. Additional unidirectional fibers are applied to reinforce the high-stress joints.
The Lily Impeller is a mixer "designed using the elegant and effective geometries found in natural fluid flow," its designer has explained. Its shape, based on the logarithmic curve (known as the Fibonacci spiral) found in nautilus shells and whirlpools, accommodates a centripetal flow of liquid with little friction. As a result, the device is capable of circulating millions of gallons of water with a minimal amount of energy. Used in municipal reservoir tanks, the mixer prevents drinking water from stagnating, reducing the need for disinfectant additives.
"The main idea promoted by this project," Oxman says, “is our ability not only to analyze natural (and biological) tissues but to reconstruct them in larger scales.” Three microscale biological tissues (a leaf section, a butterfly wing, and a scorpion paw) were reconstructed using a digital protocol. The tissues were closely analyzed and then reconstructed in three-dimensional macroscale prototypes out of wood, through the use of a very fine mill controlled by a computer.
The McCrory Corporation (Meshulam Riklis) by 1977 [1]; The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1983 (The Riklis Collection of McCrory Corporation).[1] Included in the exhibition Aspekte Konstruktiver Kunst Aspekte Konstruktiver Kunst: Sammlung McCrory Corporation, Kunsthaus Zurich, January 14 to February 27, 1977 (no. 11: Figural mit roter Ellipse). See also Rotzler, Willy, ed. Constructivism and the Geometric Tradition: Selections from the McCrory Corporation Collection. Buffalo: Albright-Knox Art Gallery, 1979 (no. 11).
The McCrory Corporation (Meshulam Riklis) by 1979 [1]; The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1983 (The Riklis Collection of McCrory Corporation).[1] Rotzler, Willy, ed. Constructivism and the Geometric Tradition: Selections from the McCrory Corporation Collection. Buffalo: Albright-Knox Art Gallery, 1979, p. 91, no. 184.
The Mollycoddle, Douglas Fairbanks's third film for United Artists (which he cofounded in 1919 with Mary Pickford, Charles Chaplin, and D. W. Griffith) is also one of Fairbanks's last films with a contemporary setting, before he turned full-time to the production of costume subjects during the 1920s. In the film, he plays a fifth-generation American who lives in Europe and is so far removed from the land of his forefathers that he has become comically emasculated. On a lark, he is shanghaied by a trio of young Americans onto a yacht headed for the U.S., only to discover that the captain is a jewel smuggler on his way to the American Southwest. The silly plot serves merely as a hook on which to hang some of Fairbanks's most inventive visual gags as well as a means of incorporating dramatic footage from the Navajo County Hopi Indian Reservation. Logical narratives were never Fairbanks's strong suit, and in The Mollycoddle he demonstrated once again that his breathtaking physical prowess and undaunted optimism could overcome any obstacles.
The Moon and the Earth is Gauguin's depiction of an ancient Polynesian myth, in which Hina, the female spirit of the Moon, implores Fatou, the male spirit of the Earth, to grant humans eternal life. It is a request Fatou resolutely denies. Gauguin's depiction of Hina and Fatou—marked by a great disparity in the figure's size, scale, and coloration—seems to reflect their ancient quarrel. In the foreground, Hinas nude figure is in full view, while Fatou, rendered from the chest up, looms larger than life in the background. But there is no middle ground; the distance between them appears impassable.
The most dramatic component of La Femme de ma vie (The woman of my life) is the large foldout aquatint printed in brilliant violet. The entire sheet is backed with pink lace, underscoring its evocation of feminine sexuality, and the same lace is used for the cover. Fautrier made the other prints, interspersed with the text pages, by cutting up extra copies of the large folded print. On the text pages he transcribed the book's title over and over in an increasingly manic handwriting that suggests romantic obsession. A poem by renowned French poet André Frénaud, also titled La Femme de ma vie, appears at the end of the book. Fautrier was a pioneer of Art informel (formless art), a European movement of the late 1940s and 1950s that loosely corresponds to American Abstract Expressionism in its emphasis on painterly abstraction. Although he is best known as a painter, Fautrier was also a committed printmaker; he made most of his prints to illustrate books.
The most politically radical of the trio of Mexican muralists known as "the three giants," David Alfaro Siqueiros sought to create an art that communicated his Communist ideology to a large proletarian audience. Carl Zigrosser of the Weyhe Gallery in New York encouraged Siqueiros to make lithographs while he was exhibiting his work in the city during the 1930s. All in all, the artist made some twenty-five lithographs and a range of woodcuts during his career. Like those of Diego Rivera and José Clemente Orozco, Siqueiros's lithographs were intended for North American collectors, while his woodcuts had a much broader reach in Mexico, appearing as illustrations in political magazines. After working for several years in Europe, Siqueiros returned to Mexico City in 1922 to join a group of young artists developing a national mural program. A high-profile Communist party leader and union organizer, Siqueiros edited El Machete, the artists' union news sheet. It was there that he published his manifesto proclaiming easel painting irrelevant and elitist, and where his popular woodcut illustrations in the tradition of Mexico's José Guadalupe Posada appeared. This portrait lithograph was completed after Siqueiros's six-month incarceration for Communist activities, while he was living in Taxco under "town arrest." Like other lithographs published by the Weyhe Gallery, this one was made by transporting drawings, printing proofs, and possibly even lithographic stones back and forth between the United States and Mexico. The subject, Moisés Sáenz, was an innovative educator who had engineered a system of schools in rural Mexico and had become Siqueiros's patron and supporter during a very difficult period in the artist's life. Related to a similar painting, this likeness exaggerates Sáenz's features, isolating and monumentalizing his head to present the man as a timeless presence.
The most popular architectural form for expressing twentieth-century modernist principles was the house. Its relatively small scale and standard program allowed and even inspired architects to experiment with architectural components such as material and spatial articulation, even while retaining the original function as shelter. Paul Rudolph's exploration of the house began when he was a student at Harvard University's Graduate School of Design. Following the teaching of Walter Gropius, Rudolph followed the formal and structural principles of the International Style, which included clarity, a strict adherence to function, and an unambiguous expression of individual parts. These guiding principles are instrumental in his design of the Finney Guest House, an unbuilt project in South Florida. He began studies for the house in 1947, while he was still a student, then continuued to work on it until around 1949. In this impeccably rendered drawing, Rudolph clearly communicates not only his design ideas for the guest house but also the reason for the drawing itself, which is "always to inform the act of building". Choosing wood and glass as his primary material palette, Rudolph carefully arranges rectangular roof and floor planes into a spatial composition suspended above the water and surrounding landscape. The glazed walls, penetrated by indirect and filtered light, would almost allow one to feel that one was in the landscape rather than indoors, a quality in which they recall other glass houses designed several years earlier by Ludwig Mies van der Rohe and Philip Johnson. Rudolph later came to find International Style dicta wanting, feeling that they did not fully consider the psychological aspect of space—how individuals use and inhabit it. The function of a space, he would argue, varies with each person, so that his buildings became "perpetual statements on the nature of architecture"—for him, “a continuing, ever-integrating, altering, deepening enigma.”
The motif of one figure watching another figure sleeping recurs in Picasso's art throughout his career. The female figures were often inspired by the women in his life at the time. One explanation for the persistence of this theme is the fact that Picasso worked at night and had ample opportunity to observe his lovers sleeping.In 1934 Picasso began to collaborate with Roger Lacourière in the printer's Paris workshop. The artist enjoyed a challenging relationship with Lacourière, who introduced him to the full potential of etching, engraving, drypoint, and aquatint.
The mussel shell is a common material in the artist's work. Here, he filled a shallow pan past its brim with the shells and paired them with an equally heaping bowl of painted wooden french fries. This combination is a witty nod to Broodthaers's heritage, as moules-frites (mussels and french fries) is generally considered the Belgian national dish. Moreover, in French, la moule (a mussel) is close in pronunciation and spelling to le moule (a cast or mold), a traditional device used by sculptors. By incorporating the shells into his sculpture, Broodthaers transformed a verbal pun into a visual one.
The mysterious Apparition is composed of a dense patchwork of tone and texture. Compartmentalized figures and cryptic signs, icons, and symbols occupy flat, rectilinear areas stacked above one another, with the narrow four-tiered shaft to the right of center suggesting totems. Eyes appear on almost every form; a pair dominates center stage and other, more enigmatic, single eyes occur frequently. Not one apparition but multiple manifestations magically reveal themselves at the same moment as we enter a new realm, peopled with fantastical inventions of the artist's subconscious.This work belongs to a unique type of picture, divided into grids, that Gottlieb called the "pictograph." Taking myth as a subject appropriate to the violence of the time in which they were conceived—the turbulent years of World War II—and finding a sense of primeval spirituality in the arts of Native Americans and other tribal cultures, Gottlieb created these highly evocative compositions spontaneously, letting a visual "stream of consciousness" direct his artistic imagination. In Apparition, the velvety qualities of the soft ground etching technique produce a blurred, dreamlike atmosphere, creating one of Gottlieb's most haunting pictographs.
The mythical Minotaur—part man, part bull—was Picasso's alter ego in the 1930s and part of a broader exploration of Classicism that persisted in his work for many years. The Minotaur was also emblematic for Surrealists, who saw it as the personification of forbidden desires. For Picasso it expressed complex emotions at a time of personal turmoil. The Minotaur symbolized lasciviousness, violence, guilt, and despair.The motif of one figure watching another figure sleeping also recurs in Picasso's art throughout his career. Variations include scenes with two women, a man and a woman, and a mythical creature with a woman. The female figures were often inspired by the women in his life at the time. One explanation for the persistence of this theme is the fact that Picasso worked at night and had ample opportunity to observe his lovers sleeping.
The nesting ovals that compose this construction were measured out on a single sheet of aluminum-painted plywood, precisely cut, then rotated and suspended to make a three-dimensional object suggestive of planetary orbits. It was made at a time of both civic turmoil and great possibility in Russia, when Rodchenko and his fellow Constructivist artists sought to apply aesthetic ideals to everyday materials. They hoped their approach to art would help create a new language for the Communist state. Reflecting back on this time, Rodchenko said, "We created a new understanding of beauty, and enlarged the concept of art."
"The New Typography emphasizes contrasts and uses them to create a new unity," Tschichold wrote. "The real meaning of form is made clearer by its opposite." The visual impact of Dexel's poster for a photography exhibition relies on this principle of contrast. Rather than referring to the pictorial content of the exhibition, the strips of reversed lettering emphasize the technical process of printing photographs from a negative. Ironically, the machinelike precision of the lettering was achieved by laborious and highly skilled handwork—the text was engraved letter by letter into linoleum, a material notoriously difficult to incise with such accuracy.
The NOAQ Tubewall is an efficient and manageable system that protects land from flooding. The labor involved in forming dykes from sandbags can dissuade people from beginning the process until high-alert flood warnings have been issued, reducing the amount of time available to assure effective protection. Using air-filled tubes of reinforced plastic that connect to form a chain, the system requires little manpower and time for installation. A skirt attached along the tube on the flood side of the barrier utilizes the weight of the water above it to anchor the tube securely. The system has been used effectively on lawns, meadows, gravel, and asphalt.
The nocturnal apparition here is a streetwalker, a seeming death mask version of Dix's luridly colored and grotesquely distorted portrait of another prostitute, Leonie. The image may reflect the common fear of syphilis and other diseases associated with prostitution; it is also a scorched, spectral emblem of the ravaged state of German society. In the background at the left is a subtly camouflaged profile of the artist.
The nuclear politics of the Cold War inspired numerous films dealing with the life–and–death, cat–and–mouse maneuverings of the two great world powers, but none was so genuinely chilling as Fail–Safe. Based on the best–selling novel by Eugene Burdick and Harvey Wheeler, Sidney Lumet's film tells the story of a squadron of American jet bombers on a routine reconnaissance flight that, due to a computer malfunction, receives an irrevocable order to drop its nuclear payload on Moscow. Every effort by U.S. commanders, including a verbal order to the pilot from the president himself, as well as air and ground attacks by both American and Soviet forces, fails to stop the planes. The final outcome, in which both the Soviet capital and New York City are obliterated, is the fulfillment of humanity's worst nightmare. The film, an utterly dark cautionary tale about the necessity of developing procedures to forestall this sort of outcome, demonstrates how, despite their best intentions, politicians, professional soldiers, and academic experts are as helpless as anyone else in the face of their "foolproof" weapons systems.
The Ohio-based Hobart Manufacturing Company widely distributed the Streamliner, which they described as "a medium-sized Slicer suitable for the average Market, Delicatessen, Kitchen, Sandwich Shop, and the like." Patented in 1949, the design—including a "StaySharp" stainless steel blade driven by a Bakelite gear, a two-stone sharpener, and a proprietary motor—was a collaboration between Arens, an industrial designer, and his employee Brookhart. Manufacture was delayed for several years due to the scarcity of aluminum during World War II, but the Streamliner ultimately proved successful, with almost 100,000 made between 1944 and 1985. Its name refers to the aesthetic practice pre-valent in 1930s American design of giving static objects aerodynamic form. In this case the rounded surfaces of the slicer are central to its function, eliminating crevices where food might get stuck and facilitating cleaning.
The organic sensuality and ethereal sensibility of Neto's work are inspired by the mid-century Brazilian Neo-Concrete movement. Founded in 1959 by the artists Hélio Oiticica and Lygia Clark, among others, the Rio-based Neo-Concrete group conceived of artworks as organic living organisms and eschewed a machinelike, geometric aesthetic. Neto likewise proposes an organic relationship between life, nature, art, and science, creating anthropomorphic, microscopic-looking organic structures at a macroscopic level. In Lonely Deserts Neto depicts two curvilinear, membranal forms floating side by side in a layer of translucent substance. Surrounding the entities are dark, sinuous forms that penetrate their walls, suggesting fertilization by spermatozoa.Organic forms are also prominent in Neto's sculptures and installations, in which he re-creates on a large scale the inner surfaces of the human body—skin and intestinal tissues—with materials such as Lycra, foam, cotton, and nylon. His fabric sculptures are often filled with spices and exude aromatic scents that evoke memory and encourage human interaction. By creating associations with the human body, Neto's artwork ultimately connects the viewer to humanity's inner structure.
"The other guy yells 'Freeeze. . .' again and the car squeals off. He's there holding the gun dead straight in front of his face, peow, peow, peow, peow." So reads a minute portion of Banner's jam-packed, monumental print, which recounts—in the artist's own words—an extended car–chase scene in the cult action film Point Break (1991). Directed by Kathryn Bigelow, the film details the adrenaline-charged lifestyle of a gang of surfing bank robbers. ("Point break" is a surfing term for the moment a wave breaks on a rocky point.)Banner came into prominence through her "wordscapes" or "still films"—works such as this one that explore how stories are perceived and reimagined, particularly in pornography, action films, epic films, and films about war. Break Point (its title reverses the title of the film) is the largest in a series of prints that considers the genre of the car chase. Here the artist transforms her detailed description of a seemingly endless, yet climactic, chase—including dialogue, action, scenery, and sound effects—into a block of text the size of a billboard or, more aptly, a cinema screen. As pursuer closes in on pursued, the words literally crash into one another, creating an abstract visual corollary to the rousing action of the film.
The paintings of Elizabeth Murray embrace both abstraction and Neo-Expressionism, and her cartoonish forms often depict objects from her everyday life, both professional (paintbrush and easel) and domestic (cups and chairs). Murray dabbled in printmaking at every step in her early career, from drawing on lithographic stones as a student, to a graduate assistantship, to her first teaching job, which involved establishing a printmaking studio. Although she enjoyed the creative aspects of printmaking, she was frustrated and discouraged by the technical expertise required. She feared that the delicacy of the printing process did not fit with her own creative style: large, boisterous, colorful paintings that seemed ready to jump off the walls, executed on shaped, sometimes three-dimensional, canvases. Thus it took several years and much cajoling to convince her to resume printmaking. In 1979 Murray finally accepted an offer from art dealers Brooke Alexander and Paula Cooper to make prints, and she has now made more than one hundred forty editions in a variety of mediums. Initially inspired by seeing an installation of the various states of Picasso's lithographic series The Bull, Murray began an exploration of her own working process in her first prints. She issued a series of five states of a single lithograph intended to be viewed together as one work. Later, collaborating with master printers at Universal Limited Art Editions and Gemini G.E.L., who rose to the technical challenges she presented to them, Murray expanded her printmaking practice to include complex experiments incorporating the shaped forms and three-dimensionality of her paintings. Cracking Cup is one of several such prints that defy the traditional boundaries of printmaking with cut and folded elements that assert themselves into the space of the viewer.
The paintings that compose Rothenberg's 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 were originally created for the six pillars of PaineWebber Group's thirty–eighth-floor corporate dining room in New York. Rothenberg chose these animated figures because she felt they would add a sense of spirited action to this meeting space and because she liked the juxtaposition of their weightless, floating forms with the expansive sky visible through the room's windows. The activity implicit in these off–balance, energetic bodies was a departure in Rothenberg's work at the time. "After years of trying to make things static, I was involved in making them move," she has said.Rothenberg has a deep interest in dance; in the 1970s she worked with the performance artist and dancer Joan Jonas. While the six kinetic bodies of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 were not intended to form a specific narrative, they are sequentially related. Rothenberg placed them in order according to what she has called the motions of a "possible dancing movement": "One leans out, one leans in, one flies up, one presses down, one stands, one relaxes."
The papier collé, invented by Georges Braque and Pablo Picasso in 1912, found a rich and complex expression in the 1914 works of Gris. In conception, his papiers collés are closer to paintings than are the sparely drawn compositions of his forerunners; unlike them Gris covers the whole surface with pasted papers and paint. In works such as Breakfast, Gris's use of printed papers is more literal than theirs: the wood-grained fragments usually follow some of the contours of a table and are therefore integral to the composition; and his perspectival cues are relatively legible and precise. His superimposed drawings of domestic objects, fragmented yet softly modeled and most often seen from above, combine to create a more representational pictorial composition than those of Braque and Picasso.Despite these observations, Breakfast is full of troubling contradictions. The striped wallpaper background spills across the table; certain objects (a glass on the left, a bottle in the upper right) appear as ghostly presences; the coffeepot is disjointed; the tobacco packet is painted and drawn in photographically realistic trompe l'oeil, but its label is real. Thus, while aspects of domestic comfort are captured in this image, Gris also raises many subjective and objective questions about how reality is perceived.
The photograph by Hungarian-born artist and designer László Moholy-Nagy (1895–1946) featured in this advertisement for a periodical devoted to his work demonstrates his interest in the play of projected light over three-dimensional surfaces, and its influence may be seen in the corporeal focus of Brownjohn's title sequence for Goldfinger. Before moving to Chicago in 1936, Moholy-Nagy famously pursued this fascination at the Bauhaus school of art and design in Germany, through an experimental fusion of type, film, and photography that revolutionized the practice of graphic design in Europe and the United States.
The Piano Lesson depicts the living room of Matisse's home in Issy-les-Moulineaux, with his elder son, Pierre, at the piano, the artist's sculpture Decorative Figure (1908), at bottom left, and, at upper right, his painting Woman on a High Stool. Matisse began with a naturalistic drawing, but he eliminated detail as he worked, scraping down areas and rebuilding them in broad fields of color. The painting evokes a specific moment in time—light suddenly turned on in a darkening interior—by the triangle of shadow on the boy's face and the rhyming green triangle of light falling on the garden. The artist's incising on the window frame and stippling on the left side produce a pitted quality that suggests the eroding effects of light or time, a theme reiterated by the presence of the metronome and burning candle on the piano.
The poster movement of the 1890s was a new phenomenon that emphasized connections between the graphic and fine arts. In this respect lithography was particularly important, allowing artists to draw directly onto a specially prepared stone and to integrate their own style of lettering into allover designs. The decorative stylization and Symbolist content of Toorop's posters influenced a wide circle of fin-de-siècle artists through The Studio, the first of a new generation of magazines that disseminated the New Art to an international audience. The angel at the center of this composition was typical of imagery that challenged conventional ideas about feminine beauty. In many centers the New Art was connected to movements for social and spiritual reform, and this poster advertises a rehabilitation center for the destitute.
The poster's title references both Bob Dylan's version of the folk-song "Blowin' in the Wind" and the electro-psychedelic explosion of "Mister Tambourine Man" that followed. The photograph of Dylan that forms the main image was enlarged from a small photo in a book. Sharp then applied a dense decorative overlay inspired by motifs in art by Leonardo da Vinci and Aubrey Beardsley. "I can remember my dear friend Eija Vehka Aho creating all the beautiful circles that make up Bob Dylan's hair and which contribute so much to the work," Sharp later recalled. Over 100,000 copies were sold for £1 through mail order and Big O outlets around the world between 1967 and 1970.
The potted jars and vase that compose this figure's breasts and distended womb are plainly visible and refer, perhaps, to Picasso's own ceramic work. Françoise Gilot, who lived with Picasso from 1946 until 1953, said that she believed the artist made Pregnant Woman as a type of wish fulfillment when she refused to have a third child.
The Prayer Companion alerts the nine Poor Clare nuns cloistered at a monastery in York, England, to issues that need their prayers. The nuns, whose everyday lives have changed little since medieval times, have taken vows of enclosure, and their connections to the outside world are occasional and limited. Designed to be understated and unobtrusive, the Prayer Companion—the nuns call it "Goldie"—sits on a table in a well-traveled hallway, its screen scrolling current issues sourced from RSS news feeds, social networking sites, and blog entries aggregated by the website We Feel Fine (which compiles the emotions of anonymous strangers who have posted the words "I feel" or "I am feeling"). The nuns report that the Prayer Companion "has been valuable in keeping [our] prayers pertinent."
The praying mantis became a kind of totem for Surrealist artists, for whom the ritual in which the female insect devours the male after mating was a compelling example of the link between sex and death. Masson raised what he called the "admirable insects" in his home, and they began to recur in his work beginning in 1934—the same year the Surrealist journal Minotaure featured an influential article on the insect by the French sociologist Roger Caillois. The insect's markedly anthropomorphic form, apparent in these drawings, increased its appeal for these artists. A bronze sculpture by Alberto Giacometti imagines a woman, in the form of a praying mantis,in the throes of either death or pleasure.
The preeminent Mexican muralist Diego Rivera pioneered a popular style of heroic realism that addressed contemporary political and social concerns in Mexico and in the United States. With the aim of making Rivera's work more widely available to collectors in North America, Carl Zigrosser, the director of the Weyhe Gallery in New York, encouraged him to make lithographs while he was in the city working on his 1931 retrospective at The Museum of Modern Art. Throughout his career Rivera made only fourteen prints, most of which were lithographs published by the Weyhe Gallery, and a single linoleum cut he made in Mexico City in 1938. In 1921, working in Mexico with the support of the Mexican government, Rivera began to develop his mural style aimed at the proletariat. During the early 1930s, his popularity in the United States led to major mural commissions in New York, Detroit, and San Francisco. This lithograph, printed in New York, is based on a detail from a fresco cycle at the Palace of Cortés in Cuernavaca, depicting the history of Mexico. In it Rivera shows the revolutionary hero Emiliano Zapata during the Mexican Revolution of 1910. Zapata, who became a national icon, is shown holding the reins of a horse whose aristocratic owner lies dead at his feet. A group of campesinos (peasants) wearing white dress shirts follow him. This scene from the fresco was repainted by Rivera for his 1931 exhibition at The Museum of Modern Art and is now in the Museum's permanent collection. The lithograph was made a year later, along with a group of four others depicting details from another of his celebrated mural cycles.
The prevalent culture of physical fitness in Weimar Germany had a visual analogue in the dynamic, uncluttered vocabulary of The New Typography—what László Moholy-Nagy, writing in 1925, termed "the hygiene of the optical, the health of the visible." The New Typography was frequently adopted in graphic material advertising sporting events, and in this case it promoted an expressive dance movement that flourished in Germany in the 1920s and 1930s. This poster's design exemplifies the typophoto—a combination of type and photography felt to communicate with the greatest clarity—with the women's dynamic poses amplifying the rhythmic lettering and radiating segments of the yellow circle. "The liveliness of asymmetry is an expression of our own movement and that of modern life," wrote Tschichold in 1928; "it is a symbol of the changing forms of life in general."
The rectangles within this painting do not extend to the edges of the canvas and appear to hover just over its surface. Heightening this sensation is the effect of chromatic afterimage. Staring at each colored segment individually affects the perception of those adjacent to it. The red–orange center of the painting tints the yellow above it with just a bit of green. The yellow above seems to tint the orange with blue. Despite these color relationships, Rothko did not want his pictures appreciated solely for their spectral qualities. He said, "If you are only moved by color relationships, then you miss the point. I'm interested in expressing the big emotions—tragedy, ecstasy, doom."
"There is no reason not to consider the world as one gigantic painting," Rauschenberg said. He composed First Landing Jump from a rusted license plate, an enamel light reflector, a tire impaled by a street barrier, a man's shirt, a blue lightbulb in a can, and a black tarpaulin, as well as paint and canvas. Jasper Johns coined the term "Combine" for such works, which he described as "painting playing the game of sculpture." Though the taut metal coil alludes to the motion of the parachute jump referred to in the title, and the lightbulb is lit with electricity, in their second lives these items are divested of their original purpose and fixed into the work of art.
"There is no royal road to food conservation. It can be accomplished only though sincere and earnest daily cooperation in the 20,000,000 kitchens and at the 20,000,000 dinner tables of the United States." This was Herbert Hoover's message to the press the day Food Control (an emergency wartime measure to conserve food supplies) was signed into U.S. law, in August 1917. Government agencies have long informed and shaped the trajectory of the modern kitchen through propaganda campaigns, which have historically sought to influence consumer behavior, as well as through taxation, building codes, and health and safety legislation.
There is nothing superfluous in Richard Meier's lean preliminary studies for the Atheneum, a visitors" center and museum for the town of New Harmony, a utopian community founded in the early nineteenth century. For Meier, drawings are a means to an end. He produces them not for aesthetic purposes—he finds little value in drawing and coloring beautiful facades—but as part of his process of exploring the building's fundamental design, in plan, section, and elevation. Meier's spare graphite line on tracing paper seems fitting to the composition of reductive elements in his all-white building. Yet his economy of line utterly belies the spatial complexity and the drama of light and shadow experienced by the building's visitors. The historical inspiration underlying much of Meier's work is the early architecture of Le Corbusier, such as the Villa Savoye, an icon of the modern movement. Meier's homage lies in part in his formal vocabulary, with its pilotis, ramps, and pure white forms, but also in his emphasis on the architectural promenade, that is, the journey through the building. Meier has said of the Atheneum that "circulation is the main spatial protagonist of this building and the ramp is its most vital element." This is evident in both of these preliminary studies, which were first exhibited at The Museum of Modern Art in an exhibition devoted to the Atheneum in 1985. In the plan, the building's principal cross axes can be seen extending beyond it into the landscape, as if connecting metaphorically with the grid of the town to welcome visitors. By rotating one axis slightly off center, Meier creates a dynamic tension that is reinforced by the shifting directions of the path threading through a variety of spaces connected by ramps and stairs. The complexity of these spaces is echoed in the irregular outline of the facade, notably the curved and fluid wall oriented toward the nearby river. The elevation brings the promenade to life by charting its trajectory through the horizontal levels of the building: ramp, stairs, bridges, and balconies activate the overall composition in a careful study of rectangles and grids, planarity and transparency. The drawing conveys a sense of anticipation and excitement, suggesting how this spatially complex building invites exploration and discovery, for the exhibits in the galleries, for the rooftop balcony from which to view the historic town, and for its own intricate sake, as a fitting symbol of the town founders' pioneering spirit.
The Reverend Howard Finster had been preaching since he was sixteen, and had worked in a variety of trades, before turning to art at the age of sixty. His work explores a personal cosmology, inspired by biblical verses, by his conceptions of heaven and hell, and by religious visions he began to experience as a small child.
THEREWAS NOROOM FOR MEANYMORE YOU SQUEEZED ME OUT OF THATPLACE LIKE I WAS NEVERWANTED NERVER ASKED LIKEI HAD JUST INVADED YOUR SOULLIKE SOME DERANGED INTRUDERWELL I NEVER ASKED TO BE PARTOF YOUNOW I KNOW HOW LITTLE I WAS WANTEDI WOULD HAPPILY HAVE JUST DIED AT BIRTI TRIED NOT TO BREATHEI WAS YELLOW AND SMALLBEING BORN INTO A NEW HELLMY OWN BIRTH STOPPED ME FROM EVER GIVING BIRTH MY OWNINTERNAL FAERS AND KNOWING OFTHE CATCHERS OF THE ETERNAL SOULSAVED THE WINGS OF MANY ANGEL. I NOW KNOW I AM FREE. FREE TO LEAVETHIS WORLD WITH NO SENTIMENTAL TRAIL. NO BLOOD TO STOP MY SOULFROM RETURNING BACKTO WERE IT REALLYBELONGS. A WORLDTHA IS MADE UPOF A MILLION SUNSI iLL BECOME JUSA INY PART OFTHAT LIGHT
These 131 video monitors stacked in a grid present simultaneous, continuous footage of the German artist during the last year of his life. In this filmed diary-project that Dieter Roth executed while convalescing in Reykjavik and Basel, we see him not only working in his studio but also while he sleeps, bathes, and uses the bathroom. It is nearly impossible to pay attention to only one video without becoming distracted by an unexpected sound or movement coming from one of the many other screens. Each monitor broadcasts a different point in the artist's daily routine, while the gridlike arrangement of monitors reinforces a sense of order and chronology.
These artworks are made of children's books found in thrift stores and at flea markets. In "collage parties" with fellow artists, Belott has pasted elements over each page of the original publications, turning them into unique artist's books. The artists who collaborated with Belott on these books are Katherine Bernhart, Joe Bradley, Melissa Brown, Larry Carlson, Brendhan Cass, Dearaindrop (Joe Grillo and Billy Grant), Misaki Kawai, Eunice Kim, Jeff Ladouceur, Taylor McKimmens, Jason McLean, Justin Samson, and Larissa Velez.
"The seats were a kind of wave which curved down, surged up, and fell once more, thus forming an object without beginning or end," said Kiesler of his Multi-use Chairs, "and in its convex curves the body could take ease." Art collector Peggy Guggenheim hired the former stage designer to design her gallery on West 57th Street, which opened in 1942. Kiesler designed these chairs—constructed for seven dollars each in the Bronx—to fill the unconventional spaces he created for Guggenheim's collection of Post-Impressionist and Surrealist art. The Surrealist-inspired "rest-forms" were meant to be versatile; Kiesler delineated eighteen uses for them, including seating and stands for the display of objects. Their amorphous and organic shape demonstrates Kiesler's experimentation with "continuous tension."
These early sketches for Jerusalem's Hadassah University Hospital were made just after Mendelsohn emigrated to Palestine in 1935. The final complex of buildings, which includes a nursing school and a research institute as well as a hospital, stands on Mount Scopus, over-looking the ancient walled city of Jerusalem and the Moab Mountains. Mendelsohn believed in an organic unity between drawing and building and between building and site, and the distinctive sweeping lines of his exterior perspective drawings were intended to capture the immediate appearance of the whole. The drawings also reveal his preoccupation with the plasticity of reinforced concrete. Mendelsohn's architectural ideas were shaped in the chaotic climate of Germany in the period around World War I and, most dramatically, by his association with leaders of the Expressionist movement.
These images, based largely on Dix's grisly memories, are an unflinching account of the horror and perversity of war. Many picture the aftermath of battle: dying, dead, or decomposing bodies, shell-shocked soldiers, and bombed-out landscapes. The artist exploited the corrosive nature of etching and aquatint—mediums in which acid etches a metal printing plate—to heighten the sense of decay. Dix had served as a machine gunner from 1914 to 1918 and saw combat on both the Eastern and Western fronts.
These “informal utensils,” as the designer calls them, offer solutions based on specific yet flexible functions that are reflected in their names: Clamp-a-book, Clamp-a-cable, Clamp-a-hook, Clamp-a-candle, Clamp-a-railing, Clamp-a-towel, and Clamp-a-book II. The devices exploit the utility of familiar forms, such as table legs, electrical pipes, and bookshelves, to offer a range of quotidian services. This prototype family of plastic clamps by Van Ast is expected to go into production in 2009.
These photographs are from Subotzky's series about Beaufort West, the oldest town in the arid Great Karoo region of the Western Cape, which boasts affluent suburbs, historic monuments to the Anglo-Boer War, and the spectacular Karoo National Park. At the same time, Beaufort West is characterized by systemic poverty, crime, and unemployment, the legacy of South Africas apartheid past.
These prints are based on a three–panel painting of 1971 entitled Voice 2. With the print versions, Johns varied his colors and experimented with the placement of the rectangles making up each composition. The title of the work, which forms the imagery, can be read in a rotating cylindrical pattern.
These three paintings belong to a series of twelve that vary in color, luminosity, size, and shape. A product of the 1960s impulse to create art from predetermined systems, the works in this series can be arranged in 479,001,600 combinations, Baer has calculated. These three large square paintings are bordered with intense “Mach bands,” rendering, according to the artist, “primary colors of light: a red (magenta), a green, and a blue.” Baer, who was trained in physiological psychology and is interested in optical phenomena, has said that the paintings in this triptych—installed, according to her specifications, “one foot or a little less apart”—were “constructed equivalent to one another as a color presence.”
The seven sections in Ocean: 7 Steps #2 contain a variation of the same image, each rendered in a different grade of pencil, exploring nuances of touch, texture, and darkness—pushing each to its limit," as the artist has said. From left to right, the grade of pencil employed becomes progressively softer, like a scale of grays.
These vitrines typify the unique way Beuys formed ensembles of his work for individual collectors.  They include a diverse array of sculptures made between 1948 and 1982 involving found objects, felt or fat, and other organic materials. Their formal associations stem from the rhythm of echoing shapes, colors, or configurations.  Many of these items are relics from the public performances, or "actions," that were a central part of Beuys's practice.  The original owner of the vitrines worked closely in concert with Beuys both in building his collection over the course of twenty years and finalizing its presentation in these glass cases in 1982. Beuys designed each vitrine to evoke the thick, heavy body and long spindly legs of a stag, an animal that, along with the hare, he often employed as an alter-ego. Here the vitrines are installed in slightly irregular fashion, an implicit reference to their potential for animation.
These Western–style nineteenth–century costumes, worn by mannequins as if part of a historical display, are made from so-called African fabrics. "African fabric signifies African identity," explains the artist, "rather like American jeans (Levi's) are an indicator of trendy youth culture. In Brixton, African fabric is worn with pride amongst radical or cool youth [....] It becomes an aesthetics of defiance, an aesthetics of reassurance, a way of holding on to one's identity in a culture presumed foreign or different." Although typically African and worn as an expression of an idealized unified identity, these wax–print fabrics are actually Dutch and were made in factories in England, where Yinka Shonibare, who was brought up in Nigeria, now lives and works. Originally made in Holland with an Indonesian technique, and exported to Africa, such fabrics bespeak colonial trade. The title is taken from a line in Alfred Hitchock's 1959 film North by Northwest, and like the cultural conflation of the work, poses a question about identity and becoming.
These woodcuts—stark icons of concentrated emotion—focus on the anguish suffered by wives, parents, and children whose men fought and died in the war. In The Sacrifice a new mother offers up her infant as a sacrifice to the cause. In The Widow II a woman and her baby lie in a heap, perhaps dead from starvation. Volunteers is the only print to show combatants. In it, Kollwitz's son Peter takes his place next to Death, who leads a band of young men in an ecstatic procession off to war. Peter had been killed in action two months after joining the military, in 1914, a loss from which Kollwitz never fully recovered.
The simple geometry of this elongated claret pitcher is characteristic of Dresser's designs, which stand in stark contrast to the heavily ornamented styles of his time. Dresser had studied Japanese decorative arts, which influenced his own designs and those of his more progressive contemporaries. In this pitcher, the long, vertical ebony handle is almost a direct quotation of the bamboo handles on Japanese vessels. As in many of his designs for metalwork, the fittings on the claret pitcher are made from electroplated metal, a technological innovation that made silverware available to a growing middle class before the turn of the century. The exposed rivets and joints presage the enthusiasm for the machine aesthetic in industrial design of several decades later. A trained botanist as well as a designer, Dresser was strongly inspired by the underlying structures of natural forms and by his interest in technological progress. While he shared some of the theories of the English Arts and Crafts movement, which sought to replace the often shoddy design of mass–produced goods with skilled handcraftsmanship, Dresser was completely committed to quality design for machine production, and is one of the world's first industrial designers.
The site plan for the cemetery evolved dramatically over the course of the project, reaching its definitive form, an open spatial arrangement, by 1932. In a drawing by Asplund from 1937, showing the northern part of the site, the entrance to the cemetery is represented by a semicircle on the right side of the drawing. From here, a walled allée marks a strong axial movement to the south, interrupted when it opens to present the visitor with a tranquil rolling landscape devoid of graves. Asplund and Lewerentz studied this entry sequence carefully, establishing it as both monumental and contemplative to communicate the importance of nature, to which all living things ultimately return. As Asplund had in devising the walled and forested precinct around the Woodland Chapel (the rectangular form on the left side of drawing), which is discreetly surrounded by the crematorium and other ancillary buildings, they saved monumentality for the landscape, rather than trying to achieve it through any structure or object. By the time of Asplund's death, in 1940, the architects had transformed their forested site into a modern sanctuary for death and bereavement. Originally from TextEntryID 73725 (TextTypeID 133)(See 307.1984 for the remainder of this essay)
The Sitzmaschine, that is, the "machine for sitting," was originally designed by Hoffmann for his Purkersdorf Sanatorium in Vienna. The sanatorium was one of the first important commissions given to the Wiener Werkstätte, a collaborative founded in 1903 by Hoffmann and Koloman Moser espousing many of the English Arts and Crafts movement's tenets of good design and high-quality craftsmanship. It represents one of Hoffmann's earliest experiments in unifying a building and its furnishings as a total work of art. The Sitzmaschine makes clear reference to an adjustable-back English Arts and Crafts chair known as the Morris chair, designed by Philip Webb around 1866. It also stands as an allegorical celebration of the machine. This armchair, with its exposed structure, demonstrates a rational simplification of forms suited to machine production. Yet, at the same time, the grid of squares piercing the rectangular back splat, the bentwood loops that form the armrests and legs, and the rows of knobs on the adjustable back illustrate the fusion of decorative and structural elements typical of the Wiener Werkstätte style. J. & J. Kohn produced and sold this chair in a number of versions, most of which had cushions on the seat and back, until at least 1916. The Kohn firm produced many designs by Hoffmann, forming one of the first successful alliances between a designer and industry in Vienna.
The son of a prosperous banker, Paul Cézanne turned from law to art after being drawn into the artistic circle of his friend, poet Émile Zola. Primarily a painter and draftsman, Cézanne was not a prolific printmaker. His complete output of prints consists of nine works in both etching and lithography. His first experiment with printmaking came in the summer and fall of 1873 when he was working in Auvers, surrounded by serious print enthusiasts: fellow artists Camille Pissarro and Armand Guillaumin; and Cézanne's host, the Impressionist patron and famed Vincent van Gogh subject, Dr. Paul-Ferdinand Gachet. Under their influence and encouragement, Cézanne executed five etchings, but he discontinued printmaking after parting company with them. It would be twenty years before he made another print. In 1895 Parisian publisher and gallerist Ambroise Vollard gave Cézanne an exhibition that was instrumental in promoting his work and establishing his reputation. This show coincided with the revival of color lithography in France in the 1890s, and Vollard was among those art entrepreneurs who commissioned and published prints for portfolios. Cézanne created a lithograph for one of Vollard's early portfolios and two more for another, never-realized project. One of the latter was The Large Bathers, based on his best-known painting at the time and one of numerous works depicting this subject. To make the color lithograph, Cézanne painted in watercolor over a black-and-white proof of the composition, then entrusted master printer Auguste Clot to help him re-create the same color effects through lithography. This and other collaborative efforts between artist and printer were common print workshop practice.
The standard practice for creating color woodcuts is to carve separate woodblocks for each color and then ink and print them successively, one over the other, on a sheet of paper. Munch devised a simplified process in which he cut out each section of the composition from a single woodblock, like a jigsaw puzzle. He then inked each element in the desired color and fit all the pieces back together. With this method, printing required only one run through the press.
The Stratocaster, Fender's flagship electric guitar,was designed "to become part of the player" with an ergonomic "comfort-contoured" body, a recessed jack to keep amplifier cables out of the way, volume and tone knobs positioned for easy adjustment while playing, and deep double cutouts for better neck access. Its original technical features included three pickups for a bright, glassy sound and a Fender-patented tremolo arm ("whammy bar"). The Stratocaster's user-friendly design and unique sound set an iconic new standard for electric guitar design and performance.
The Street, Balthus's first large painting, was one of several that scandalized audiences when it was included in the artist's earliest solo exhibition, in Paris in 1934. Balthus rendered each of the figures in his scene of Paris's rue Bourbon-le-Chateau frozen mid-movement; none of them seem to notice the aggressive sexual struggle underway at the painting's far left. Balthus eschewed stylistic categorization, but The Street was of great interest to Surrealist artists for its rendering of a crowded street as an uncanny site of mental isolation and for its exploration of sexual taboos.
The subject of this woodcut  a group of sensuous nude female dancers on stage, one in ecstatic frenzy  exemplifies the Brücke artists' bold rejection of bourgeois norms and academic conventions. The stark contrast between black accentuating lines and white areas removed with a gouge adds a rhythmic quality to the scene, while the looming black hat creates a jarring sense of spatial ambiguity by effectively merging foreground and background. This approach to form shows the influence of Matisse's Fauvism, which Kirchner saw in an exhibition at the Paul Cassirer Gallery, Berlin, at the beginning of the year. This woodcut is part of a large number of nudes and dance scenes that Kirchner concentrated on during his mid-Brücke phase from 1909 to 1911.
The succinct and dynamic composition of Trepkowski's poster captured the memory of the devastation wrought in World War II—just one in four buildings remained standing in Warsaw. The threat of further international conflict generated much  propaganda in the 1950s promoting the cause of peace. The Communist central state focused its attention on the rebuilding of the capital as a symbolic center of a new utopian order menaced by "capitalist aggression." Trepkowski died at age forty, acknowledged as one of the most influential poster designers in Poland.
The Surrealists of the 1920s and '30s played a game they called "exquisite corpse," a collaborative activity in which each individual would add to a drawing or text without seeing the contributions of the other participants. The surprising results were thought to reveal the subconscious. A long–time member of the Surrealist group, Tanning continued to use the technique in work she did alone, here by cutting etchings into strips to allow for the mixing of parts.
The surreal juxtaposition of a giant sparkplug and a rural landscape is a deliberately provocative gesture. This fantastic collage registers Hollein's dissatisfaction with the architectural status quo of the early 1960s  and invites speculations about the future of architecture. Declaring all forms of architecture, even the vocabulary of modernism, to be inadequate, Hollein drew upon the consumer products of science and technology to create images he believed appropriate to the times.While Hollein's transformations of commonplace objects and the landscape in a number of photomontages have certain parallels with Pop art, he shared the larger concerns of polemical architects, such as his countryman Walter Pichler and members of the British group Archigram. The imaginary proposals for buildings, cities, and services made in the early 1960s by Hollein and other visionary architects anticipated the radical, often utopian, statements of the Italian groups Archizoom Associati and Superstudio toward the end of the 1960s, a decade that culminated in cultural upheavals throughout much of the world. By this time, however, Hollein was redirecting his focus. In interiors and buildings of the late 1960s and the 1970s, he included references to historical Viennese architecture while continuing to juxtapose the built and the natural landscape.
The symmetrical blocks in the center of the gallery are plaster casts of the space beneath an ordinary double bed, with four round holes demarcating the space once occupied by the bed's legs. Whiteread is known for casting domestic objects and their surrounding spaces, such as the undersides of tables, the interior of a bathtub, and even an entire row house in London's East End. The resulting works reconfigure our encounters with familiar objects and spaces, inviting us to see what is not there or to notice details that are normally hidden.
The taut clapboards zip across the open middle of the picture as if to measure the outward stretch of the boy's arms, while he blissfully tilts his head skyward. A photograph can only describe what the camera sees, but this one also shows how a body can feel. There is something else, which the reproduction cannot fully capture. The print was made from a negative as large as itself—eight by ten inches. To make the negative, Nixon used a big camera on a tripod and put his head under a black cloth to focus the image. All of that old-fashioned effort was worthwhile because the richness of detail in the negative yielded a print that is at once sharp as a pin and smooth as a child's skin and the light that falls upon it.By the 1970s the artistic traditions of photography were old enough for abandoned styles and techniques to serve as fresh points of departure. After photographers had been in love with the ease and quickness of hand-held cameras for two generations, the cumbersome cameras of the past presented a new challenge. For Nixon, the challenge was to make the old box responsive to unfolding experience: to marry the ancient precision of photography with its modern agility.
The term abstraction, as it is generally applied to photography, is misleading. Completely indecipherable photographs are quite rare and usually quite boring. More common and more interesting are pictures such as this one, in which an unfamiliar configuration of form competes for our attention with what we are inclined to call the subject—in this case, the woman's face. That competition is the true subject of the picture. Moholy-Nagy taught at the Bauhaus in Germany between 1920 and 1933. He began his career as a painter, but in the mid-1920s he came to regard photography as the universal visual language of the modern era because it was mechanical and impersonal and, therefore, objective—no matter how unexpected the results might be. Perhaps it was precisely the unpredictability of photography that he loved, because it unveiled fresh experiences. In 1925 he published a picture book titled Painting, Photography, Film, which illustrated the many ways in which photography challenged old habits of seeing—by showing very distant or very small things, for example, or by looking up or down. The great majority of the illustrations were the work of scientists, journalists, amateurs, and illustrators—not of artists. The message was clear: photography had revolutionized modern vision without the aid of "art."
The term abstraction, as it is generally applied to photography, is misleading. Completely indecipherable photographs are quite rare and usually quite boring. More common and more interesting are pictures such as this one, in which an unfamiliar configuration of form competes for our attention with what we are inclined to call the subject—in this case, the woman's face. That competition is the true subject of the picture.Moholy-Nagy taught at the Bauhaus in Germany between 1920 and 1933. He began his career as a painter, but in the mid-1920s he came to regard photography as the universal visual language of the modern era because it was mechanical and impersonal and, therefore, objective—no matter how unexpected the results might be. Perhaps it was precisely the unpredictability of photography that he loved, because it unveiled fresh experiences. In 1925 he published a picture book titled Painting, Photography, Film, which illustrated the many ways in which photography challenged old habits of seeing—by showing very distant or very small things, for example, or by looking up or down. The great majority of the illustrations were the work of scientists, journalists, amateurs, and illustrators—not of artists. The message was clear: photography had revolutionized modern vision without the aid of "art."Head. c. 1926
The terracotta shades and heavy monumentality of the figures in Two Nudes derive from Picasso's interest at the time in the ancient Iberian sculpture of his native Spain. Like many artists in the first decades of the twentieth century, Picasso found ancient and non-western art to be fruitful alternatives both to the prescribed forms of academic painting and the visual culture of industrial modernity. These two women are nearly mirror images, but the face of the figure on the left bears a strong resemblance to that of the figure on the far left in Les Demoiselles dAvignon. Like the woman in Demoiselles, with whom she shares her chiseled nose and dark, hollow eyes, this woman holds open what appears to be a curtain and gazes outward, as though beckoning viewers in.
The thick, encrusted surface of Personage reveals that Motherwell created it through countless applications of thick paint. Describing his working process during this period, the artist wrote, “I begin painting with a series of mistakes. The painting comes out of the correction of mistakes by feeling. I begin with shapes and colors, which are not related internally nor to the external world; I work without images.”
The thick surface of this panel indicates the prolonged duration of its making. Monet worked on this and other paintings over a period of several years, building up layers of paint as he altered and refined the compositions. This ethereal image features softly flowing passages of cloud reflections amid a tranquil surface punctuated by pink lilies.  The notably delicate palette of this painting differentiates it from others and suggests a silvery light suffusing the pond's surface. Since the 1890s Monet had indulged a passion for exploring a single subject in extensive series that chronicle its changing appearance at various times of day and in different kinds of weather.
The thrifty aesthetics and labor-saving ethos of the New Kitchen came to the fore during World War II. Merchant shipping was immediately targeted by German U-boats, disrupting the importation of food into Britain that had previously amounted to 55 million tons a year. From the outset of the war, the mandatory rationing of food, resources, and furnishings became an ever-present concern. Through posters commissioned from leading commercial artists of the day, the Ministry of Information conveyed messages about the vital need for food conservation, home gardening, and the elimination of vermin from the kitchen. Although the political context is now very different, this poster campaign, with its emphasis on food hygiene, eating locally, and responsible consumption, remains relevant today.
The title comes from the 1960 Ray Charles/Betty Carter hit Murray listened to while painting this work. The imagery within the jumbled and interrupted maze is at once comic and abject, recognizable and uncanny—an overturned bottle, faces, bodies, and organs, as well as references to the paintings of Joan Miró and Pablo Picasso. Unlike these painters, who applied paint to flat canvases, Murray describes her process as "a construction." "The painting comes to me in pieces and it goes up on the wall," she has said.
The title Eatherly's Lamp refers to Major Claude Eatherly, a pilot in the United States Air Force who flew the reconnaissance airplane Straight Flush over Hiroshima on August 6, 1945, and signaled that the way was clear for the nuclear bomb to be dropped.
The title of this late work suggests that the black zigzags refer to the rhythmic strokes of a violin bow. Evoking a tablet of hieroglyphs, these thick, seemingly unrehearsed lines traverse the ground, bounding dashes, circles, and indecipherable symbols. While barely legible beneath a layer of colored paste, comparatively delicate newspaper type runs vertically, rooting the work in its contemporary moment. Following the rise of the Nazi regime in Germany, from 1933 until his death Klee lived in exile in Switzerland. These last years of his life were marked by intense productivity and assertive directness.
The title of this sculpture identifies its two spherical shapes as navels and the larger, upturned form as a bell. The navel was one of Arp's signature motifs, as he considered its associations with birth, growth, and procreation to be particularly resonant. In his work it can resemble an egg, a seed, a womb, and as paired here, breasts—or the orb of the earth itself. As Arp explained, "It's the first thing that exists, the beginning." He connected human life not only with the cycles of nature, but also with the act of artistic creation. The year he made this work Arp declared, "Art is a fruit that grows in man like a fruit on a plant or a child in its mother's womb."
The title of this work may refer to the luminous imagery projected on or performed within the theater-like boxes that dominate the composition. Here Dalí played with the disjunctions between reality and the illusion experienced in the darkness of a movie theater. The imagery, realized through a combination of painting and collage, refers to personal and universal dreams and anxieties. Dalí's own disembodied head appears in the middle box, while an allegory of castration anxiety plays out below. Underscoring the experience of motion–picture viewing presented in the painting, this work illustrated the shooting script for Un Chien andalou when it was published in the journal La Révolution surréaliste.
The top row of this tableau of six pictures represents, from right to left, Wegman, his mother, and his father. The bottom row consists of superimpositions of all possible combinations of any two of the three images above. The combinations resemble the sorts of pictures that once circulated as scientific illustrations of racial and social types. The humor of Wegman's tableau derives from the deadpan sincerity with which he has reenacted this absurd operation.Photographs perform many banal functions in our everyday lives, so banal that we rarely stop to think about them. The head shots that appear on identity cards and drivers' licenses are good examples. In the early 1970s Wegman helped to lead an artistic movement that emulated the look of such photographs but short-circuited their functions. The idea was to invite us to consider the meanings we attach to these pictures, and so to explore our habits of thought and our social arrangements. Wegman's talent for comedy has been evident from the beginning, but it took a while to see that his playful wit is colored by kindness and warmth.
The towering form of Manhattan's Chanin Building— newly completed when Lewis made this print, and still standing today on the corner of 42nd Street and Lexington Avenue—is the distant focus of the woman in the foreground of Lewis's composition. The glowing skyscraper, in the modern Art Deco style, contrasts with the dark rows of squat buildings and the strings of drying laundry around the fire escape where she stands. In Lewis's time his mastery of printing techniques was widely recognized; Edward Hopper, who shared his interest in the illuminated forms of the city at night, sought his advice when making some of his own etchings.
The tricycle may be a little worse for wear, but it is pictured here as the most important thing in the world. To make the photograph, Eggleston adopted a viewpoint even lower than the eye-level of the tricycle's owner, so as to give us a clear view between its wheels to the grown-up sedan parked in the carport across the street. Eggleston's photographs began as Kodachrome slides, a popular medium of amateur photography, and they resemble snapshots in the way they forthrightly describe ordinary people and objects, framed squarely in the center of the picture. Critics who found this resemblance grounds for dismissing the work overlooked the paradoxical power of snapshots. To the insider, snapshots are keys that open reservoirs of memory and feeling; to the outsider, who does not recognize the faces or know the stories, they are forever opaque. But because we all have snapshots of our own, we know the habit of understanding them and of projecting ourselves into the dramas and passions they conceal.Color became available to the ordinary photographer in the 1950s and 1960s, but before then photography had been a black-and-white medium for more than a century. Not only did color photographers have to master a new medium, they also had to forget the distinguished precedents that had drawn them to photography in the first place. The conviction that serious photographs are made in black and white has not entirely disappeared, even today.
The Tuber Lamp is a complex configuration of nine intertwined rootlike forms whose twisting heads contain light-emitting diodes (LEDs) that shine in different directions to create a wash of light. Using a parametric modeling system, Dean designed a three-dimensional animated model that constantly evolves and mutates. The Tuber Lamp's virtual form grows and evolves within this system until a user freezes the model for production. The computer model is then "printed" out into an exact physical realization through laser sintering, a process in which particles of nylon are fused together layer by layer to create a three-dimensional mass.This organic design and production process allows for endless variation within a defined framework while also incorporating the user into a seamless design and manufacturing process. Mass customization of design objects has become a realistic endeavor in recent years as rapid-prototyping techniques have improved; no two models of the Tuber Lamp are the same, although each bears a resemblance to the parametric model it came from. Through such projects as the Tuber Lamp, designers are working to revolutionize the role of the user in the design process and completely transform the ways in which materials are selected and assembled.
The Tulip Armchair, which resembles the flower but also a stemmed wineglass, is part of Saarinen's last furniture series. This one-legged chair was meant to alleviate one of Saarinen's great concerns: clutter. Describing his intentions to simplify and clarify structure, he said: "The undercarriage of chairs and tables in a typical interior makes an ugly, confusing, unrestful world. I wanted to clear up the slum of legs. I wanted to make the chair all one thing again." Saarinen designed each piece in the Tulip series of furniture with a single pedestal leg, creating a unified environment of chairs, tables, and stools.The Tulip chair also marks the culmination of Saarinen's efforts to create a chair molded from a single material, which furthered his design concept of "one piece, one material." But, while the elegant Tulip chair looks as if it is made of all one material, the sculptural fiberglass shell seat is actually supported on an aluminum stem with a fused plastic finish.Tulip Armchair. 1955-56
The Tuttuno contains a pull-out bed, table, drawers, and shelves below an elevated conversation pit. Internotredici designed this compact unit to combine storage, sleeping, and eating areas with a place for socializing and relaxing. When not in use, the bed, table, and drawers slide into the unit and out of sight. Originally released in 1969, Tuttuno was redesigned and released in limited production in 1971.
The "twittering" in the title doubtless refers to the birds, while the "machine" is suggested by the hand crank. The two elements are, literally, a fusing of the natural with the industrial world. Each bird stands with beak open, poised as if to announce the moment when the misty cool blue of night gives way to the pink glow of dawn. The scene evokes an abbreviated pastoral—but the birds are shackled to their perch, which is in turn connected to the hand crank. Upon closer inspection, however, an uneasy sensation of looming menace begins to manifest itself. Composed of a wiry, nervous line, these creatures bear a resemblance to birds only in their beaks and feathered silhouettes; they appear closer to deformations of nature. The hand crank conjures up the idea that this "machine" is a music box, where the birds function as bait to lure victims to the pit over which the machine hovers. We can imagine the fiendish cacophony made by the shrieking birds, their legs drawn thin and taut as they strain against the machine to which they are fused.Klee's art, with its extraordinary technical facility and expressive color, draws comparisons to caricature, children's art, and the automatic drawing technique of the Surrealists. In Twittering Machine, his affinity for the contrasting sensibilities of humor and monstrosity converges with formal elements to create a work as intriguing in its technical composition as it is in its multiplicity of meanings.
The Vellum Curve works, which this is a part of, involve folding sheets of a material—here, vellum—according to the principles of the Golden Section. In these works, though, Rockburne first drew one circle and one ellipse—each in a distinct color—on each vellum sheet, determining their position in relation to the Golden Rectangle (a rectangle whose proportions follow the logic of the Golden Section). Rockburne first used vellum in the 1973 wall work Neighbourhood. She increasingly favored the material for its ability to “facilitate its transparency.”
The Vertigo of Eros is what Matta called an “inscape,” one of a series of imaginary landscapes he conceived of as projections of his psyche. In 1939, to escape the war in Europe, Matta emigrated from Paris to New York, where he stayed until 1948. His use of spontaneous, unplanned “automatic” drawing and his interest in mysticism, evident in paintings such as this, had a tremendous influence on many New York–based artists. Together with other Surrealists in exile, he quickly made acquaintance with painters, including Jackson Pollock. “We spoke of automatism,” Matta recalled. “The New Yorkers became aware of these things through contact with us, although, as in a Chaplin movie, we had arrived utterly lost.”
The Vienna Secession group's construction of its own building, in 1897–98, epitomized the city's importance as a center of opposition to the established artistic order. The group of young painters, sculptors, and architects associated with the venue were committed to the unification of different art forms through a holistic aesthetic. Olbrich, for example, designed both the building itself and its graphic representation on this poster, which publicized the group's second exhibition. Although Harlfinger's poster was made fifteen years later, for a 1913 exhibition of Secession posters, it communicates a similar control of line and austerity of decoration. Its vibrant contrasting colors and rectilinear arrangement, anchored by a labyrinthine "S," express the geometric and antihistoricist language of the Vienna Secession.
The Villa Savoye, a weekend house outside Paris, is perhaps the finest example of Le Corbusier's early work. Le Corbusier, along with his cousin Pierre, planned the entire composition as a sequence of spatial effects. Arriving by automobile, the visitor drives underneath the house, circling around to the main entrance. From the entrance hall, he or she ascends the spiral stairs or the ramp to the main-level living area. The ramp continues from the central terrace to the upper-level sun deck. Sheltered by brightly colored wind screens, it is a perfect vantage point for savoring sunlight, fresh air, and nature.In his famous book of 1923, Vers une architecture (Towards a New Architecture), arguably the most influential architecture book of the twentieth century, Le Corbusier declared houses to be "machines for living in." Villa Savoye, a white rectilinear volume on a flat landscape, celebrates Le Corbusier's belief that ideal, universal forms, although rooted in the classical tradition, were appropriate to architecture for the machine age. The design incorporates Le Corbusier's "five points of architecture," which he believed to be indispensable  elements: pilotis (reinforced-concrete columns), the free plan, the free facade, horizontal bands of windows, and the roof garden.This model was included in The Museum of Modern Art's first architecture exhibition, in 1932, which documented the various trends that came to be known as the International Style.
The visionary architect Friedrich St. Florian has explored the idea of alleviating urban problems not by building taller buildings and larger cities but by creating spaces that are only present when activated—a Manhattan office building, for example, that is only there when in use, from nine to five on weekdays. In this vein the New York Birdcage—Imaginary Architecture Project describes the nonphysical "waiting rooms" charted by the airplanes that circulate in holding patterns above the greater New York area. This drawing illustrates their paths, the different colors indicating different "rooms." As in solid, earthbound architecture, each room is a dimensional space, with a floor, a ceiling, and walls, but it has no physical structure; existing only when "drawn" by the moving airplane, it depends entirely upon the airplane's presence and on the pilot's and air-traffic controller's consciousness of designated coordinates. Once the craft has moved on, the parameters become irrelevant and the room disappears. St. Florian sees these "transparent, elusive, magnificent" areas as imaginary forms suspended over our cities. Although St. Florian is known for his design of the National World War II Memorial, scheduled to be completed on the Mall in Washington, D.C., in 2003, he has spoken of the "nuisance" of projects "actually being built". As if working on paper shared in that nuisance, the Birdcage drawing itself exemplifies transience: it is drawn on a photographic reproduction of a map of New York, a base or template on which the imaginary architecture's temporary waiting rooms are overlaid in the lighter, less permanent medium of colored pencil.
The Wall Street Journal commissioned this typeface for its financial tables with the goal of increasing legibility while condensing the letterforms to save space. Designed to be used at very small sizes—7-point or below—Retina departs from traditional letterforms altogether to instead provide letters that are as dissimilar from one another as possible.  Retina, in the words of the designers, fills in what "human eye needs and what the brain expects" when reading very fine print. By playing up the differences between each letter, the designers have taken "its essence, the thing that makes it this letter and not something else" and amplified it.  Notches, or ink traps, are cut into the glyphs to compensate for ink spread on poor-quality paper. Many newspapers now use Retina not only for stock listings but also for sports scores, classified ads, movie and TV listings, and other high-density texts.
The weekend house for Dr. Edith Farnsworth represented by this rendering is one of Mies van der Rohe's  clearest expressions of his ideas about the relationship between architecture and landscape. The transcendent quality he achieved in his architecture is epitomized by the reductive purity and structural clarity of this steel and glass structure. The space  of the house is defined by its roof and floor planes, the whole supported by eight steel columns. All the steel elements are painted white. The architect claimed: "We should strive to bring Nature, houses, and people together into a higher unity. When one looks at Nature through the glass walls of the Farnsworth House it takes on a deeper significance than when one stands outside. More of Nature is thus expressed— it becomes part of a greater whole."Set in a meadow overlooking the Fox River, which is prone to flooding, the house is elevated above the ground. Aesthetically, this contributes to the effect of weightlessness, reinforced by the cantilevered roof and floor planes and by the asymmetrical placement of the two travertine terraces that imply an infinite extension into space. Mies van der Rohe's transformation of a classical pavilion into a completely modern, abstract idiom—based on a carefully studied sense of proportion and structural logic—is a sublime testament to his apocryphal statement: "less is more."
The Wind is the last surviving silent picture by Seastrom, the great Swedish director who worked in Hollywood in the 1920s. It is also the last silent film of Lillian Gish, the mute art's greatest actress. In The Wind, natural forces destroy a delicate young woman, played by Gish, who is isolated in a desert cabin struck by sandstorms. Through both cinematography and Gish's performance, wind represents all the cosmic forces that have ever borne down on a vulnerable humanity. When faced with a brutal male attacker, Gish's seemingly fragile and innocent character summons a ferocious strength and resilience.What makes The Wind such an eloquent coda to its dying medium is Seastrom's and Gish's distillation of their art forms to the simplest, most elemental form: there are no frills. Seastrom was always at his best as a visual poet of natural forces impinging on human drama; in his films, natural forces convey drama and control human destiny. Gish, superficially fragile and innocent, could plumb the depths of her steely soul and find the will to prevail. The genius of both Seastrom and Gish comes to a climactic confluence in The Wind. Gish is Everywoman, subject to the most basic male brutality and yet freshly open to the possibility of romance. As a result, the film offers a quintessential cinematic moment of the rarest and most transcendentally pure art. Seastrom made nine films in the United States after accepting a 1923 offer from Hollywood, and although the silent film was on its way out, he left, in The Wind, one last enduring monument of the genre.
The wire and the cagelike form of Puryear's sculpture may suggest a hunter's trap or a fisherman's basket; another allusion could be to sport, and the lacrosse stick. These different echoes resonate with the title Greed's Trophy, but the work has no single model among human artifacts, and its traces of them fuse with hints of the human body: the dark eye, and the lolling tongue at the bottom, evoke a head, while the shape—dwindling at the foot, expanding at the "chest," and swelling slightly into a circle at the top of the armature on the wall—is subtly figural. Meanwhile, as Greed's Trophy is taking us in these various interpretive directions, it remains conspicuously empty and open, its tense curves a sculptural essay in shape without physical substance. "I was never interested in making cool, distilled, pure objects," Puryear has said, and his work is deliberately associative. Minimalism has informed his involvement with materials, but whereas the classic Minimalist object is industrially fabricated and impersonal in shape and surface, Puryear's art is steeped in cultural and historical reference, and he is enormously adept at carpentry and other manual skills. In fact Greed's Trophy, in evoking the tools of the American outdoorsman, claims a place for the history of craft in our understanding of the country's art.
The woman crawling through the tawny grass was the artist's neighbor in Maine, who, crippled by polio, "was limited physically but by no means spiritually." Wyeth further explained, "The challenge to me was to do justice to her extraordinary conquest of a life which most people would consider hopeless." He recorded the arid landscape, rural house, and shacks with great detail, painting minute blades of grass, individual strands of hair, and nuances of light and shadow. In this style of painting, known as magic realism, everyday scenes are imbued with poetic mystery.
The Wyss Institute at Harvard University has developed ten different types of “organs-on-chips,” a still experimental technology designed to replace often expensive and ethically fraught human or animal testing in the pharmaceutical and medical industries. The chips—including the kidney-on-a- chip and the gut-on-a-chip—simulate human organ mechanical and biochemical functions, and can be used singly or in combinations to test the effects of new drug treatments on human physiology. For example, the lung-on-a-chip, a clear, flexible polymer lined with bioengineered human airway and capillary cells, is both better at predicting outcomes and less expensive than animal testing, as demonstrated in the Pharmaceutical Journal. Removing some of the pitfalls associated with human and animal testing means, theoretically, that drug trials could be conducted faster and their viable results disseminated more quickly.
The XO is the first generation of an inexpensive computer conceived by One Laptop per Child, a nonprofit program begun at the MIT Media Lab, and it is designed to be distributed by governments and nongovernmental organizations to schools all over the globe. XO is made to be the size of a textbook and lighter than a lunchbox. Many of its features serve at least two purposes: the Wi-Fi antennas double as covers for the USB ports, for instance, while the handle serves also as an attachment point for a strap and the protective bumper also seals to protect from dust. The screen has both a full-color mode and a reflective high-resolution mode that makes it readable in bright sunlight, and a wide track pad doubles as a drawing and writing tablet. If electricity is not available, the computer can be recharged by a pull cord that works like a yo-yo.
The XO Laptop is an inexpensive computer for children in the developing world. It was specifically adapted to the needs and habits of children: it is the size of a textbook and lighter than a lunch box, with soft edges, a handle, and a rubber keyboard; it is recyclable, drop-proof, splash-proof, and dustproof; it can be manually recharged; and its wireless antennae resemble playful rabbit ears. More than seven hundred thousand of these laptops, many of them equipped with the innovative and child-friendly interface Sugar, have been distributed to schools in Argentina, Brazil, Cambodia, China, Ethiopia, Libya, Mexico, Mongolia, Nigeria, Pakistan, Paraguay, Peru, Romania, Rwanda, Thailand, and Uruguay. A newer model, XOXO, was developed with feedback from children and released in 2010.
The youngest and most academically inclined member of the Abstract Expressionist group, Robert Motherwell had received degrees from Stamford and Harvard when he began studying art history under famed art historian and critic Meyer Schapiro at Columbia University. Motherwell did not become a full-time artist until 1941 and, with his academic background, was often cast in the role of the intellectual of the New York School. In that year, at Schapiro's behest, artist Kurt Seligmann invited Motherwell to study etching in his studio. So began Motherwell's long and fruitful printmaking career, which consisted of more than four hundred editioned prints, and established him as Abstract Expressionism's most prolific and dedicated printmaker. Through Seligmann, who had come to America in 1939, Motherwell met other exiled European artists, many of them Surrealists, and began to adopt their idea of "pure psychic automatism," the process of letting uncontrolled drawing initiate the structure of a composition. Working in this intuitive mode led to the creation of a vocabulary of recurring abstract motifs, most often executed in black and white, that Motherwell would draw upon throughout his career. One such motif, two ovals compressed within a triangle, was first used by the artist in 1943 and appears in this plate from Madrid Suite, one of twenty-five prints created by the artist during a 1965–66 collaboration with printer Irwin Hollander. For this series, one of many works with a Spanish theme, Motherwell recalled an experience he had while honeymooning in Madrid with Helen Frankenthaler in 1958. He had pinned drawing paper on the hotel walls and liked the way the texture of the wall transferred itself to the sheets as he drew. To re-create this experience, Motherwell taped transfer paper to the spackled walls of Hollander's studio and rubbed the sheets with lithographic crayons to achieve the desired transfer of texture.
The Y–shaped pieces of metal Smith incorporated into this work are found objects. "These Y's were in a box unknown to me at the time of the purchase," Smith said. ". . . I cannot locate their original function." Smith found that the iron was soft and tactile—deal properties for his work—and he made several welded constructions in 1950 that incorporated these and other forged letters. He covered this metal sculpture with fifteen to twenty coats of paint mixed with aluminum powder and varnish. For Smith the letters represented "the return to origins—before purities were befouled by words. Before the ingrate word makers turned the artists own symbols against him with a what does it mean."
This abstract puzzle, created in 1985 by Pajitonov, a Russian computer programmer employed by the Soviet Academy of Sciences, is highly addictive and becomes, when played for extended periods of time, an almost meditative practice. Tetris has become one of the most universal of all video games, appealing to players across lines of age, gender, and geography and adapted for nearly every gaming and computer system. Many people bought Nintendo's Game Boy specifically to play Tetris, which was included with purchase of the device when it was released in 1989.
This armchair belonged to the architect and designer Hector Guimard, a leading proponent of French Art Nouveau. He conceived it as part of a larger harmonious ensemble, a work of art that embraced every aspect of the interior. Like many artists of his generation, Guimard looked to the natural world to revitalize modern forms, stating, "For construction, do not the branches of the trees, the stems, by turns rigid and undulating, furnish us with models?" Such aesthetic principles informed his designs in various materials, on scales ranging from handcrafted jewelry to the serial production of ceramic fireplaces and the exuberant cast-iron entrance gates for the Paris Métro, one of which is on view in the Sculpture Garden.
This black-and-white woodcut served as a cover design for the Bauhaus manifesto by architect and founder Walter Gropius. The image reflects the aura of medievalism that pervaded the initial phase of the Bauhaus, whose academic system harks back to the training employed by Late Gothic craft guilds. Lyonel Feininger was invited by Gropius in 1919 to head the printmaking workshop, and he retained his connection with the school until it closed, in 1933.
This book's long, accordion–folded format captures the forward rhythm of a procession. Kentridge assembled torn black paper on unbound pages of a French dictionary (c. 1906) to make the first volume. To produce the edition, the paper fragments were replicated using metal templates and affixed to additional dictionary pages.
This brooding face confronts the viewer with an immediacy and deep emotion that leave no doubt about the prophet's spirituality. His hollow eyes, furrowed brow, sunken cheeks, and solemn countenance express his innermost feelings. Three years before Nolde executed this print, he had experienced a religious transformation while recovering from an illness. Following this episode, he began depicting religious subjects in paintings and prints, such as the image seen here.Nolde had joined the German Expressionist group Brücke (Bridge) in 1906, participating in its exhibitions and in its exchange of ideas and techniques. He taught etching to his fellow members, and they introduced him to woodcuts. During the 1890s, woodcuts had undergone a resurgence and revamping, when artists such as Paul Gauguin and Edvard Munch used them to create bold images that expressed strong emotional content. In Prophet, Nolde also exploits the characteristics inherent to the medium. Coarsely gouged-out areas, jagged lines, and the textured grain of the wood effectively combine in this portrayal of a fervent believer—a quintessential German Expressionist print.
This cameo of nineteenth-century life maintains its intimacy through Degas's use of pastel, whose chalky texture quiets the scene in multiple veils of color. Pastel, an important drawing medium at the end of the nineteenth century due in part to a new preoccupation with color, appropriately expresses, through its inherent fragility, the ephemeral encounter between two women of different milieus that lies at the heart of Degas's composition.Degas often accompanied his female friends to the dressmaker's and the milliner's. Here, one of them, the American artist Mary Cassatt, serves as the model and tries on hats while an attendant waits expectantly behind her. Cassatt's expression of contented self-assurance contrasts sharply with the apprehensive posture of the shopgirl, a figure obscured by cropping and the lack of delineation of her facial features.In this daring nuanced composition about modern life—the subject is the fleeting encounter rather than the women themselves—Degas heeded the advice of the critic Edmond Duranty, who, in his 1876 pamphlet, The New Painting—about the art that came to be known as Impressionism—wrote: "Let us take leave of the stylized human body, which is treated like a vase. What we need is the characteristic modern person in his clothes, in the midst of his social surroundings, at home or out in the street."
This cap pops onto any standard-size aluminum soda can for the safe disposal of up to 150 hypodermic needles; after it is snapped on, it cannot be removed. Hân developed the Yellowone Needle Cap after realizing that no accessible, inexpensive, and flexible solution existed in developing countries for discarding such hazardous medical waste, leading to millions of accidental HIV and hepatitis B and C infections and polluted landscapes. Hân uses universal graphics (a skull and crossbones, a spider, a needle and hand), cautionary words, and a bright color to clearly communicate the containers purpose and contents. She worked with Médecins Sans Frontières (Doctors Without Borders) and Unicef to research and test the practical applicability of her design in the field. At the end of 2011, the production and distribution was taken over by Danish mosquito-net manufacturing company Bestnet.
This chaise longue is named after the supernatural djinni (genie) of the Koran. It became particularly famous after furnishing the futuristic rotating Hilton in Stanley Kubrick's film 2001: A Space Odyssey (1968). Olivier Mourgue created undulating, low-slung seating for both home and office environments, experimenting with color and material as well as flexibility and disposability (zip-off nylon jersey covers could be changed by season). He grew up in a Paris apartment filled with Empire-style antique furniture, which he detested. "Furniture like that has nothing to do with life," he proclaimed in 1965. "One is never at ease in such rooms." Ease, achieved through groundbreaking form, became a hallmark of Mourgue's work. He trained in Paris as well as Finland and Sweden and by his mid-twenties was recognized as an innovative—even shocking—leader in furniture design.
This curious personage, with four small spindly legs supporting a visage of stunned eyes and a quizzical smirk or handlebar moustache, offers a satiric take on the work's grim title. Inspired by a Zuni war god sculpture that Klee saw at an ethnological museum, it was painted on the eve of Hitler's assumption of power in Germany, a year after Klee left the Bauhaus for a professorship at the Kunstakademie Düsseldorf. The two sets of legs suggest that two figures might be supporting and hiding behind this monumental carnival-style mask, an arrangement related to Klee's metaphorical statement, "The mask represents art, and behind it hides man."
This design for a crystal tower, conceived by the German architect Ludwig Mies van der Rohe, was unprecedented in 1921. It was based on the untried idea that a supporting steel skeleton would be able to free the exterior walls from their load-bearing function, allowing a building to have a surface more translucent than solid. A number of American skyscrapers had featured expanses of glass, but Mies was the first to imagine such a building without a structural or decorative frame of masonry. Indeed Mies seems to have been inspired by photographs of American skyscrapers when they were still under construction, a stage that he felt revealed "the bold constructive thoughts, and then the impression of the high-reaching steel skeletons is overpowering." Mies developed his radical proposal in response to a call for German architects to design Berlin's first skyscraper, intended for a triangular site bounded by the Spree River, the busy shopping street Friedrichstrasse, and the train station of the same name. The competition drew 140 entries as well as intense interest from architects, artists, and the general public, generating debate about the future of the city and representing hopes for new beginnings after Germany's defeat in World War I. While Mies's bold image of an entirely steel-and-glass skyscraper had a solid scientific and technological basis, his crystal-shaped plan reflected the more fantastic visions of Expressionist architects and artists, who were drawn to glass as a symbol of purity and renewal. This very large drawing was repeatedly reproduced in publications around the world, achieving iconic status. In 1964, the architect, who had left it behind when he emigrated to the United States in 1938, was able to retrieve it from what was then East Germany, and it has been exhibited frequently at The Museum of Modern Art since then. Its bold image and masterful draftsmanship continue to inspire.
This design for an airplane hangar uses Fuller's octet truss to form its lightweight, long-span space frame structure. Patented in 1961, the octet truss is a compound of a tetrahedron (a triangular pyramid) and an octahedron (a solid form with eight triangular faces). Fuller searched for inexpensive, high-performance materials and economical building procedures. Much of his research was in geodesic structures, in which the tetrahedron is the basic unit. These are three-way grids in which all members of the structure are mutually supportive, or synergetic. The efficiency of the overall structure allows for more slender individual members and reduced construction costs. Fuller's research into lightweight, energy-efficient space frame structures was an important reference for avant-garde architects of the 1960s in their experiments with megastructures.
This desk belonged to the architect and designer Hector Guimard, a leading proponent of French Art Nouveau. He conceived it as part of a larger harmonious ensemble, a work of art that embraced every aspect of the interior. Like many artists of his generation, Guimard looked to the natural world to revitalize modern forms, stating, "For construction, do not the branches of the trees, the stems, by turns rigid and undulating, furnish us with models?" Such aesthetic principles informed his designs in various materials, on scales ranging from handcrafted jewelry to the serial production of ceramic fireplaces and the exuberant cast-iron entrance gates for the Paris Métro, one of which is on view in the Sculpture Garden.
This disquieting image of a figure constrained within an armored shell and suffocating from an eruption of flames and blood synthesizes Luigi Dallapiccola's nightmarish operatic tale. In it a Spanish prisoner thinks he has escaped punishment only to find himself in the arms of the Grand Inquisitor and led to a burning stake. Both poster and opera conveyed the pessimism and sense of deception and entrapment prevalent in Cold War Europe.
This double-page spread from the book La Lunette farcie (The Stuffed Lunette) offers immediate immersion into the fanciful, haphazard world of Dubuffet. He created the atmospheric abstractions by chance, experimenting with a variety of "accidental" happenings to produce textures on the lithographic plates, which might include indiscriminate scratching and the random exposure of the plates to fire, liquid, dirt, or other elements. Otherworldly images are surrounded by the artist's nonsensical ramblings that consist of French words arranged more by sound or look than by meaning. The unpunctuated writing, reproducing the artist's own stenciled words, is placed in different orientations around the pages, making the text even more problematic. The inane title is virtually untranslatable. Dubuffet's relaxed, playful attitude reflects his admiration for children's art, the art of the insane, and that of the untrained. He was among the first artists to appreciate "visionary" or "outsider" art, which he called l'art brut (rough art).La Lunette farcie was one of several books Dubuffet made with the poet-publisher Benoit. This man, whimsical by nature, would send blank etching or lithographic plates to artists such as Pablo Picasso and Max Ernst to tempt them to make images for his innovative publications.
This double-page spread from the book La Lunette farcie (The Stuffed Lunette) offers immediate immersion into the fanciful, haphazard world of Dubuffet. He created the atmospheric abstractions by chance, experimenting with a variety of "accidental" happenings to produce textures on the lithographic plates, which might include indiscriminate scratching and the random exposure of the plates to fire, liquid, dirt, or other elements. Otherworldly images are surrounded by the artist's nonsensical ramblings that consist of French words arranged more by sound or look than by meaning. The unpunctuated writing, reproducing the artist's own stenciled words, is placed in different orientations around the pages, making the text even more problematic. The inane title is virtually untranslatable. Dubuffet's relaxed, playful attitude reflects his admiration for children's art, the art of the insane, and that of the untrained. He was among the first artists to appreciate "visionary" or "outsider" art, which he called l'art brut (rough art).La Lunette farcie was one of several books Dubuffet made with the poet–publisher Benoit. This man, whimsical by nature, would send blank etching or lithographic plates to artists such as Pablo Picasso and Max Ernst to tempt them to make images for his innovative publications.
This drawing is one of a number of studies Kahn made in the 1950s of the historic downtown district in his long-time home of Philadelphia. In this small bird's-eye panorama, Kahn developed his idea of a city surrounded by massive cylindrical parking towers, defending the center—which he called the "Forum"—against an onslaught of automobiles and the forces of decentralization that threatened social interaction. The historical references that were beginning to emerge in his work are evinced by the gateway towers, which recall ancient monuments, like the Roman Colosseum, in various states of decay.
This drawing is part of a series Cohen terms Stereotomic Permutations. It uses the graphic convention of stereotomy, a drawing method of orthographic projection used to guide the cutting of stone. This technique employs converging lines to show depth in space, similar to perspective drawing. Cohen combined stereotomy with two-point perspective, creating anamorphosis; the deformed image appears in its true form only when viewed from an unconventional angle. This drawing describes mirrored, nonidentical twin forms in a distorted representation of serial and symmetrical structures. Cohen writes of this series, "These projects propose stereotomy as a new interlocutor between perspective and three dimensional, orthographic architectural space."
This drawing is related to a later series of Kubin's works, The Eternal Flame, based on German folktales and myths. A flaming cauldron placed in the center of the composition is a recurring motif in the series. The feeling of horror and mystery of this image is created through a subtle play of light and dark that envelops the foreground figures in an enigmatic veil. Light dramatizes and brings forth from the shadows both the flame and the floating skull, thus heightening the effect of a hallucinatory vision.Most of Kubin's drawings evoke a fantastic nightmarish mood, high drama, and mystery. The eerie, unreal quality characteristic of his work may possibly be related to his early apprenticeship to a photographer, since Kubin's images seem to emerge out of the darkness, much as negatives develop in a darkroom.Although most of Kubin's adult life falls within the twentieth century, his art—primarily drawings—belongs to the Austrian Symbolism of the end of the nineteenth century. The graphic work of Francisco Goya, James Ensor, Max Klinger, Odilon Redon, and particularly Hieronymus Bosch offered him stylistic inspiration, while his subject matter was steeped in the incompatible philosophies of Friedrich Nietzsche and Arthur Schopenhauer.
This drawing is rife with allusions at once ancient and current, religious and personal: a pair of hands impaled with pins recalls both a crucifixion and the acts of willful self-mutilation that characterized 1970s performance art. Indeed, VALIE EXPORT is best known for her work in performance, expanded cinema, and video, though she has turned to drawing during "reflective periods" in which "her search for identity" has driven her practice, she has said. This drawing relates to a concept for the artist's unrealized monument Ort des Menschen (The place of humans), in which a large protective hand emerges from the earth only to have its fingers nailed punishingly back down.
This drawing originated from an installation of the same name—an igloo made of glass and stone addressing the theme of shelter and the relation of humans to their environment. In the drawing Merz developed his figurewith a spiraling gesture that represents, he said, "the growth of matter beyond itself." Merz was interested in mythical, primordial animals, which he thought conveyed the animalistic nature of human beings as well as the humanity of animals. The identification of human beings with animals and vice versa is depicted in this figure through fragments reminiscent of the human body (ears and eyebrows) and the crouching position and heaviness of body evocative of a lion.
This drawing shows Gunnar Asplund's design for an advertising tower, the signature element in his scheme for the 1930 Stockholm Exhibition, which marked the introduction of functionalist architecture to Scandinavia. The theme of the 1930 exhibition was "Housing, Transportation, Furnishing," and it focused on industrial responses to the needs of Sweden's growing middle class. The exhibition committee sent Asplund on a tour of continental Europe in the autumn of 1928 for design inspiration. Upon his return to Sweden, Asplund designed the complex in the modernist International Style, a radical departure from the classicism of his earlier projects, such as the Stockholm Public Library. The tower recalls similar designs by Russian Constructivists, but rather than revolutionary slogans, it supports advertisements for chocolates, scarves, and radios by major manufacturers.
This drawing unites the cosmic and terrestrial, as it maps an ideal state in which the social order is conceived as a living organism, intimately linked to a balanced natural order. Each motif is a metaphor: the sun creates energy, which circulates by means of a looping line; through alchemy it takes form in a threefold system of culture—art, science, and religion—and travels toward the ideal state; this life principle is balanced by the death principle, and the earth by the primary actor, Man, an androgynous figure accompanied by an emblem of his animalistic and spiritual nature—the stag.Untitled (Sun State) is one of Beuys's Blackboard drawings, which were created during his lectures at educational institutions and museums. This drawing evolved during his participation in the public dialogue, "Art into Society, Society into Art" at The Art Institute of Chicago in 1974. Here Beuys demonstrates, with a thin looping line and verbal descriptions, the connections among myth, alchemy, astrology, anthropology, and the social and political sciences. The result is a work described by the artist as a kind of astrological chart embodying his ideas of the ideal state, in which democratic principles inform cultural life (freedom), law (equality), and economics (fraternity). It is a constellation delineating a structure for a harmonious social body, or, alternatively, a social sculpture—an evolutionary process whose goal is to "sculpt new models for the entirety of life."
This drawing was executed along with the animated film Stereoscope, the eighth in Kentridge's decade-long series featuring Soho Eckstein, the archetypal white Johannesburg businessman of the post-apartheid era and an alter ego of the artist. The role of drawings in Kentridge's oeuvre has developed over time. Initially created in service to his films, they gradually took on a more independent life, and in 1992 the artist began showing them separately.Here Eckstein stands in a room, knee–deep in water. It seems to be pouring from his dark business suit, as if, underneath, his whole body is crying. A vertical blue line rends the upper part of the picture in two and falls on the back of his inclined head like a reminder from his conscience. Eckstein has to cope with the horrifying past of his country, Kentridge has written, and find a line "between choosing a more solitary life or being promiscuously social." For the artist the drawing is a ghost image, a witness to "the extent to which politics does or does not find its way into the private realm."
This edition comprises eighteen variants. Rothenberg found an oddly shaped block of wood outside the ULAE studio and carved the floating figure and the four circles into it. She reinked the block by hand for each impression, varying the colors every time. She also chose the textured Mexican handmade paper that further distinguishes each print in the edition.
This elaborate bentwood cradle was lined with thick cushions to create a soft, sheltered, egg-shaped bed for an infant. The sinuous and sensual design, with the elegant, curved forms of the cradle and the long vertical arm that supported draped netting, reflects the popular Art Nouveau style of the time. Such cradles could be found in stylish, bourgeois homes all over Europe.Bentwood designs became ubiquitous as seating for cafés and gardens and later as elaborate, upholstered domestic furnishings. Inexpensive, durable, light, and ideal for export because components could be assembled after shipping, pieces such as J. & J. Kohn's cradle became perfect symbols of the new industrial age. The bentwood process had been developed by the German designer Michael Thonet in the mid-nineteenth century in order to make appealing functional furniture efficiently and economically. In 1867 the manufacturer J. & J. Kohn became Thonet's chief competitor, opening factories in several international locations. Bentwood furniture was made by steaming lengths of wood and then bending them and placing them in metal molds to dry. The resulting standardized sections were assembled with hardware instead of the traditional hand-carved joints. The idea of standardized elements revolutionized the principles of furniture production.
This electrostatic loudspeaker is distinguished by its large, light membrane, meant to symbolize the clarity of its sound. It is representative of the remarkable range of clean and elegant designs for which Dieter Rams is famous, all shaped by his steadfast philosophy, "Omit the unimportant." Rams was the primary force in developing the modern design program at the German appliance company Braun, which he joined in 1955 and led for almost thirty years as head of design. He secured Braun's success in the postwar consumer electronics market, creating esteemed series of radios, record players, bathroom scales, fans, food mixers, space heaters, slide projectors, calculators, hair dryers, toasters, juicers, and lighters. Rams gave utmost consideration to the interests and needs of the user, valuing comprehensibility and enjoyment at the same level as advanced engineering.
This etching depicts a man who was born with one wing. In his incessant attempts to fly, he has broken his other limbs—a fact elucidated in writing next to the figure. With his solemn, statuesque pose and asymmetrical, ruined state—replete with a sprouting tree trunk for a leg—the figure is tragicomic. This work was executed during the flight craze of the early twentieth–century, two years after the Wright brothers' successful flight in 1903. Klee looked upon man's desire to fly with skeptical sarcasm, yet, in terms of his ideas, the identified himself as "a flying Man."
This etching is Picasso's first major effort in printmaking. It became part of the series Saltimbanques, issued in 1913. This vivid example was made before the printing plate was reinforced with steel facing to make a large, later edition.
This exuberant image of the American dancer Loie Fuller captures the cabaret culture of fin-de-siècle Paris. Fuller was an important attraction, embodying l'Art Nouveau with her innovative choreography and diaphanous silk costumes illuminated by multicolored electric lighting. One of the most famous printmakers of the late nineteenth century, Chéret is often regarded as the originator of the artistic lithographic poster. His innovative crachis techniquespattering rather than painting a wax resist onto the lithographic stoneallowed him to create a shimmering effect with relatively few impressions.
This film depicts a 1930s German typewriter made by Rheinmetall that Graham found in a junk shop. "It was just this incredibly beautifully made, solidly designed typewriter. Not one key had ever been pressed on it," he has said.  His filmed homage is projected with a 1961 Victoria 8 projector issued by the Italian company Cinemeccanica, a mechanical wonder that Graham has described as "very beautiful, kind of overly powerful."  "It's these two objects confronting one another," the artist has said of the installation. "Two obsolete technologies facing off."
This film remains one of the most influential experimental works in the history of cinema. The only film made directly by the artist Fernand Léger, it demonstrates his concern during this period—shared with many other artists of the 1920s—with the mechanical world. In Léger's vision, however, this mechanical universe has a very human face. The objects photographed by Dudley Murphy, an American photographer and filmmaker, are transformed by the camera and by the editing rhythms and juxtapositions. In Ballet méchanique, repetition, movement, and multiple imagery combine to animate and give an aesthetic raison d'être to the clockwork structure of everyday life. The visual pleasures of kitchenware—wire whisks and funnels, copper pots and lids, tinned and fluted baking pans—are combined with images of a woman carrying a heavy sack on her shoulder, condemned like Sisyphus (but through a cinematic sense of wit) to climb and reclimb a steep flight of stairs on a Paris street. The dynamic qualities of film and its capacity to express the themes of a kinetic 20th-century reach a significant level of accomplishement in this early masterpiece of modern art.
This four-channel video installation was shot inside the abandoned headquarters of the defunct East German secret police—unofficially called Stasi City— a few years after the reunification of Germany. Images of the labyrinth of abandoned corridors, interrogation rooms, and open and closed doors are accompanied by a soundtrack of the clanging, buzzing, and clicking sounds that would have been emitted by surveillance equipment when police occupied the building. Stasi City is an imprint of the haunting memories embedded in architecture.
This free, open source project was initiated by Lyon with the goal of making visual representations of metaphysical spaces. The data represented and collected here serves a multitude of purposes: modeling the Internet, analyzing wasted Internet protocol (IP) space and distribution, detecting the result of natural disasters, weather, and war, and aesthetics or art.
This head is made from a wooden fruit crate into which Picasso carved abstracted ears. He once explained that his playful daily practice of assembling found objects felt to him only natural: "It seems strange to me that we ever arrived at the idea of making statues from marble. I understand how you can see something in the root of a tree, a crevice in a wall, a corroded bit of stone, or a pebble....But marble?"
This head of a peasant woman with her face frozen in terror (a fragment of a planned larger sculpture, never realized) was cast in bronze from a plaster left in González's studio at the time of his death in 1942. The artist made several paintings and sculptures of this subject beginning in 1936, in response to the outbreak of the Spanish Civil War, which claimed the lives of thousands of civilians before its conclusion in 1939. (Montserrat is a mountain range in the Catalonia region of Spain, where González was born; it is also a popular first name for women of the region.) This representational work marked a radical departure from the abstract, Cubist-inspired sculptures for which González was best known at the time. In 1937, a full figure sculpture of the same subject stood at the entrance to the Spanish Pavilion at the International Exhibition of Art and Technology in Modern Art in Paris, where Pablo Picasso first presented his monumental anti-war painting Guernica—like this work, a response to Fascist violence in Spain.
This highly animated picture is dominated by rectangular pieces of paper that cover the surface of the work. Schwitters created the illusion of depth by placing those papers with darker components behind those that are lighter in aspect. The brightest piece of paper, in the center of the composition, shows an eye-catching cluster of red cherries and the printed German and French words for the fruit. In the winter of 1918–19 Schwitters had collected bits of newspaper, candy wrappers, and other debris, and began making the collages and assemblages for which he is best known today. The Cherry Picture belongs to a group of these works he called Merz, a nonsensical word that he made up by cutting a scrap from a newspaper: the second syllable of the German word Kommerz, or commerce.By 1921 Schwitters had been painting seriously for ten years, largely in different naturalistic styles. In doing so, he learned how all art was based on measurement and adjustment and the manipulation of a variable but finite number of pictorial elements. He never forgot these lessons, which form a bridge between his earlier, representational work and the purely formal manipulation of found materials in the Merz pictures.
This hinged, mobile kitchen on castors incorporates a stove, small refrigerator, pull-out cutting board, and a surprising abundance of storage space. It was shown in MoMA's landmark 1972 exhibition Italy: The New Domestic Landscape, which celebrated innovative, flexible designs responsive to new ideas about casual and adaptable living. In considering this dynamic, compact unit, Time magazine noted  its cultural significance: "In a country like Italy, where the kitchen is still a kind of sacred cave presided over by a mother-goddess, the design of a cooking module that can be rolled about and plugged in anywhere has profound implications. Not, perhaps, the immediate death of the nuclear family—but certainly a substantive critique of it."
This house, designed for a couple and their three children, reflects the physical needs of the husband, who, following an automobile accident, uses a wheelchair. The architect conceived the project as three houses on top of one another. A very large lift, open on all sides, travels between the three levels. Like an itinerant room, it moves alongside a three-story wall of shelves that hold books, files, artworks, and wine within the husbands easy reach.
This installation documents the preparations for the January 2003 World Economic Forum, in which the entire valley of Davos, Switzerland, was temporarily transformed into a high-security zone. In the period leading up to the forum, Spinatsch installed three remote-controlled cameras outside different buildings. One was programmed to record up to 2,500 images over three hours, from 6:35 to 9:30 A.M., while slowly rotating vertically and horizontally. Spinatsch assembled the shots in a high-resolution panorama that shows random moments captured frame by frame as well as the transition from dawn to early morning. Instead of a photojournalistic account of the event, the artist presents the leadup to the forum, revealed as meticulously planned and tightly controlled.
This is a portrait of a woman known only as Madeleine, an artist's model and Picasso's lover during his early years in Paris. She appears in certain of his Blue period and Rose period works. This represents the latter, when his compositions became dreamlike and allegorical.
This is a portrait of Fernande Olivier, Picasso's lover from 1905 until 1911. It shows the influence of Paul Gauguin's woodcuts and of Oceanic, African, and Iberian sculpture, which led Picasso in the direction of simplified forms.
This is a portrait of Taylor's friend Will Gillespie, nephew of the American jazz legend Dizzy Gillespie, painted—like many of the artist's portraits—in a single sitting of less than two hours. Taylor incorporated personal details such as Gillespie's necklace and folded hands, meant to symbolize his identification as a practicing Buddhist. While evoking traditional portraiture, Taylor paints in a loose and intuitive style that is intensely individual. He took up painting late in life after working an assortment of odd jobs, including ten years as a psychiatric nurse; he worked at a state hospital while, eventually, pursuing studies at the California Institute of the Arts.
"This is a world," Gorky said of Summation. But it is an ambiguous world. The plant– and animal–like forms that appear to blossom, flop, poke, and tickle each other defy identification, even while their forms are crisp and clear. Gorky's interest in the Surrealist practice of spontaneous and unplanned "automatic" drawing freed and mobilized his line, allowing him to create what Surrealist leader André Breton called "hybrids," or linear units with multiple metaphoric meanings.&ldquo;There is my world,&rdquo; Gorky said of this composition filled with forms that appear to blossom, flop, poke, and tickle each other. Although his paintings and this work on paper (his largest) have an improvisatory spirit, they are closely based on preliminary drawings. Gorky&rsquo;s interest in the Surrealist practice of spontaneous, unplanned &ldquo;automatic&rdquo; drawing freed and mobilized his line, allowing him to create what Surrealist leader André Breton called &ldquo;hybrids&rdquo;&mdash; abstract forms based on close observations of the natural world.
This is one of a celebrated group of twenty-four drawings, collectively referred to as the Constellation series, which was executed during a period of personal crisis for Miró triggered by the Spanish Civil War and World War II. Trapped in France from 1936 to 1940, the artist embarked on these obsessively meticulous works on paper in an attempt to commune with nature and escape the tragedies of current events. Despite their modest formats, they represented the most important works of his career up to that time, a fact he quickly realized.The first eleven works in the series were executed in Normandy between December 1939 and May 1940. Although the motifs throughout correspond to Miró's classic repertory, in the earlier works the washed grounds are more saturated, the motifs larger, and the compositions looser than in those that would follow. In the later thirteen works, executed in Palma de Mallorca in 1940–41, of which The Beautiful Bird Revealing the Unknown to a Pair of Lovers is exemplary, the grounds are almost opalescent, and the familiar motifs are smaller and tightly woven into a continuous linear web. In its elusive poetry yet rigorous control, this work not only embodies Miró's artistic personality, but it also mirrors the luminous tracks of constellations in a clear night sky.
This is one of a series of works on unstretched fabric that Rauschenberg called "Hoarfrosts." "I read the word in Dante," he explained. "Hoarfrost is like a mock frost, but its a warning about the change of seasons." Semitransparent diaphanous fabric imprinted with magazine images hangs like veils' covering a collage of similar images drawn from popular culture. In sharp contrast to the overwrought surface of Bed, Rauschenberg stated that here he was "actually trying to dematerialize the surface as much as I could so that you had a sense of the fabric being there so light would have something to fall on."
This is one of many paintings and prints in which Beckmann used self-portraiture as a form of role playing. Here, he presented himself as a stern and successful businessman, holding a cigarette in a gesture of nonchalance or defiance. But at the lower left, almost imperceptible, is a red polkadot sash. A sly reference to the dress of a clown, it mocks and rebukes his mask of authority. Beckmann frequently portrayed himself in circus costume.
This is one of several etchings Klee made that refer to ancient Greek comedies; in this example, both mask and face are significantly deformed. The artist said, "This is my most personal work up to now...Its expression flowed from my deepest soul." Klee described the subject of this print as "a grotesque mask on a grave and moral head...The mask represents art, behind it hides man." He considered the print's etched lines to be "roads to the analysis of the work of art."
This is one of several portraits Picasso painted of his companion, Fernande Olivier, during the summer of 1909, a period that the couple spent in Picasso's native Spain. While the pears in the background are modeled in the round, Picasso radically reconfigured Oliviers head and bust, fragmenting them into geometrical segments. This fracturing of solid volumes offered an alternative to the traditional illusionistic and perspectival approach to depicting three–dimensional space on a two–dimensional  surface and suggests the direction Picasso's process would take in the development of Cubism. The slices carved into the figures neck and the diamond recesses of her eyes are replicated in the sculpture Womans Head (Fernande), which Picasso created in the fall of that year.
This is one of several posters Lenica designed for films directed by the Polish expatriate Roman Polan´ski. The cartoonish figures capture the grimly funny spirit of Cul-de-sac and reflect Lenica's own aesthetic strategies as an animator. Speaking at MoMA in 1974, he explained, "For animation, paper cuts and collage are the best. Drawing in animation has no character, it is too anonymous. I make it as simply as possible." The poster was awarded a Special Prize in 1973 at the First International Film Poster Competition in Cannes.
This is one of several studies of the seascape at Domburg, The Netherlands, where Mondrian sometimes summered. Here he offers an oblique view of the coastline, depicting dunes on the left, sea on the right, and sky above, rendered in stark orange and blue horizontals. The painting's vibrant coloring and thickly applied lines demonstrate the artist's transition from an earlier naturalism to a period of formal experimentation. Mondrian would later recall that he had preferred to paint "in gray, dark weather or in very strong sunlight, when the density of the atmosphere obscures the details and accentuates the large outlines of objects."
This is the second of two portraits George Grosz painted of his friend, writer Max Herrmann-Neisse. After countless hours in Grosz's studio, which yielded more than thirty preparatory drawings for the portraits, Herrmann-Neisse said he felt "completely at home" there. In this portrait, Herrmann-Neisse slumps deeply into a chair, lost in thought. Grosz meticulously yet sympathetically presents Herrmann-Neisse and his distinctive features, such as his hunchback and oversize bald head. The artist details the lines, bumps, veins, gnarls, and ruddiness of his friend's head and hands, placing him almost within arm's reach. Grosz and Herrmann-Neisse shared the same politics, sense of humor, and cynical outlook. They were, as Herrmann-Neisse later recalled, both "proper and anarchistic." Herrmann-Neisse, Berlin's leading cabaret critic, guided the way in their nocturnal adventures. Together they dove into the seediest nightspots, while also moving in the same intellectual circles and contributing to the same periodicals.
"This is what interests me as an artist: how you can create work that somehow transcends place and time," Sikander has said. Her work transcends not only place and time but also social and political boundaries, including her life in New York, her homeland of Pakistan, and neighboring India. Fusing allusions to Muslim and Hindu mythologies with personal stories, literary references, and the humor and irony of everyday life (as in the title of this project, No Parking Anytime), the artist's work challenges definitions of identity and culture.Sikander works in a compelling range of mediums and formats, each one informing the other, from traditional miniature painting to large-scale wall installation to computer animation. Printmaking is integral to her practice of reusing and expanding upon her own preexisting imagery. In this portfolio, comprising nine prints in all, the artist combines new drawing done directly on the etching plates with details from other work that she has reprocessed digitally. At the center of the composition at left is a radiating form the artist calls a "divine circle." Emanating from it are female figures, dots, and dozens of arms with hands clenching axes, swords, sticks, ropes, and shields. The circle of weaponry creates a mandala (a fundamental Hindu form); the image refers to the many-armed goddess found in the Hindu and Muslim worlds—a motif that appears in different forms throughout Sikander's work.
This large, circular, floor–hugging work, inspired by the popular animated cartoon The Powerpuff Girls, is part of a group Apfelbaum calls "fallen paintings" in reference to their irreverent position on the ground. Works in the Powerpuff series—like the cartoons on which they are based—are highly controlled and painstakingly put together while still articulating the delirious thrill of topsy–turvydom. This piece is an abstract portrait of Blossom, the invincible red–haired and pink–eyed leader of the Powerpuff trio, whose mission is to save the world from evil before bedtime. Apfelbaum espouses superhero comic characters as legitimate catalysts for change. Discussing the rise of girl power, the artist notes, "I liked the idea of a strong somewhat promiscuous female role model, the slightly out-of-control quality of these cartoon characters."
This large-scale wall stencil—titled Kwakuhlekisa, a Zulu word meaning "amusing" or "absurd"—was created from a digital image and can be scaled up or down, depending on the space available. Spaceships have appeared in Platter's drawing, video animation, and sculpture in recent years as symbols of "ushering in or delivering change when things get out of control on earth," he has said. Platter has remarked that his work is an expanded form of printmaking. He is inspired by the stark idiom of black-and-white linocut, in particular the prints of John Muafangejo.
This maquette, or model, was a design for a streetbased loudspeaker to be placed at city intersections, where it was to broadcast a speech by Lenin on the fifth anniversary of the Russian Revolution. Klutsis combined his interests in architectural design, posters, and typography, designing a kiosk on which Lenin's name is spelled out in bold red letters while the Russian words for "radio-announcer" and "speech" appear in black. As with other Russian Constructivists, such as Aleksandr Rodchenko and El Lissitzky, Klutsis sought to place art at the service of the new Socialist society and its early ideals. Striving for maximum legibility, he opted for bright colors and simple geometric forms.
This melancholy portrait was based on Munch's childhood memory of the illness of his sister Sophie. He was just fourteen when she died of tuberculosis. His mother had succumbed to the same disease nine years earlier. In this composition, he focuses directly on the young girl's head and chest—the site of her diseased lungs. Her gaunt face is turned away and she stares off as if into another world.Munch considered this work—his first attempt at color lithography—to be his best print. He used yellow and gray tones to cast a sickly haze over the scene and red lines to evoke the bloody signs of tuberculosis. He left open areas within and to the right of her face, creating a sense of glowing light that suggests the transcendence of death. Years later Munch said, "Few artists ever experienced the full grief of their subject as I did in The Sick Child."
This monumental drawing reinterprets The Battle of Rorke's Drift (1981), a linocut by John Muafangejo depicting a key battle in the Anglo-Zulu War of 1879, a turning point in securing Britain's colonial rule in South Africa. Here Platter replaces a representation of carnage between the Zulus and the British with enchantment and debauchery in a KwaZulu-Natal nightclub.
This monumental drypoint refers, through its title, to a message sent from mother to son in a popular radio program for South African troops: "This message comes from your mother, with Casspirs full of love." Casspirs are armored personnel carriers; their name is an anagram of the abbreviations CSIR (Council for Scientific and Industrial Research) and SAP (South African Police), the organizations that developed them. These vehicles, designed for international military operations, were deployed against South African civilians during apartheid.
This monumental print was made in 1989, the year the South African government announced a program of social and political reform, and the print conveys a sense of social antagonism through figures whose tongues are entangled. The work marks a shift in Kentridge's screenprinting from theater posters and protest work to fine art, though the brown background of this image recalls the inexpensive brown paper he used for his earliest posters.
"This morning I saw the country from my window a long time before sunrise, with nothing but the morning star, which looked very big," van Gogh wrote to his brother Theo, from France. Rooted in imagination and memory, The Starry Night embodies an inner, subjective expression of van Goghs response to nature. In thick, sweeping brushstrokes, a flamelike cypress unites the churning sky and the quiet village below. The village was partly invented, and the church spire evokes van Gogh's native land, the Netherlands.
This motif is based on John's lifesize bronze sculpture of a paintbrush–filled Savarin coffee can (1960). The composition was created first as a poster for a retrospective exhibition of his work, which explains its attention–getting scale. For the background, Johns used a fragment of a then–recent painting of crosshatched strokes. By showing the early sculpture and the painting together, he represented the span of his work at the time of the retrospective.
This object, known as the "Bauhaus lamp," embodies an essential idea—form follows function—advanced by the influential Bauhaus school, founded in 1919 by the architect Walter Gropius, which taught a modern synthesis of both fine and applied arts. Through the employment of simple geometric shapes—circular base, cylindrical shaft, and spherical shade—Wagenfeld and Jucker achieved "both maximum simplicity and, in terms of time and materials, greatest economy." The lamp's working parts are visible; the opaque glass shade, a type formerly used only for industrial lighting, helps to diffuse the light.The lamp was produced in the Bauhaus metal workshop after its re-organization under the direction of the artist László Moholy-Nagy in 1923. The workshop promoted the use of new materials and favored mass production under a collaborative, rather than individual, approach.Initial attempts at marketing the lamp in 1924 were unsuccessful, primarily because most of its parts were still hand assembled at the Bauhaus. Today, the lamp is widely produced by Techno-lumen of Bremen, Germany, and is generally perceived as an icon of modern industrial design.
This ordinary still life, featuring a cup of coffee and the New York Times newspaper, has been photographed in an unusual way. What might have been a benign, placid picture, reassuring to our sense of the tranquility of domestic life, has been fractured. The photographer has joined two views of the same scene into a diptych that is disorienting even though the space is continuous from one frame to the other. This work is a kind of puzzle that tests viewers' perceptions while drawing them in through the exquisite use of light and a radiant color palette.A close look reveals the figure of a uniformed soldier on the left side of the first picture and palm trees above him. In the newspaper text, "troops and why it had not . . . the troops earlier?" is readable. In the righthand picture marching soldiers are visible through the glass coffee cup, and part of the word "Baghdad" can be read in the newspaper. This scene of ordinary domestic life has been invaded by the dramatic troubles of a distant war.
This oversized nail was designed for the construction of wood-frame buildings in areas that are prone to severe natural events such as hurricanes and tornadoes. It has one hundred percent more uplift capacity (uplift is force applied parallel to the nail shank) and up to fifty percent more shear capacity (force applied perpendicular to the nail shank) than common sheathing nails. Walls constructed with these nails can carry a load up to twenty percent bigger and absorb about fifty percent more force before giving in.
This painting belongs to the series of gridded, bichromatic, abstract compositions Torres–García made between 1935 and the early 1940s. In this work, irregular, geometric forms evoke primal architectonic structures, and the dramatic contrast between light and shadow on the many planes creates an effect of depth and volume. The painting reflects the artist's deep engagement with the indigenous art and architecture of the Americas and, in particular, his interest in Incan stonework. The strong shading in each rectangular compartment gives the impression of stacked blocks, visually mimicking Incan masonry.
This painting brings together incongruous and unrelated objects: the head of a Classical Greek statue, an oversized rubber glove, a green ball, and a train shrouded in darkness, silhouetted against a bright blue sky. By subverting the logical presence of objects, de Chirico created what he termed "metaphysical" paintings, representations of what lies "beyond the physical" world. Cloaked in an atmosphere of anxiety and melancholy, de Chirico's humanoid forms, vacuous architecture, shadowy passages, and eerily elongated streets evoke the profound absurdity of a universe torn apart by World War I.
This painting consists of two identical vertical sets of concentric, inverted U-shapes. Each half contains twelve stripes of black enamel paint that seem to radiate from the single vertical unpainted line at their center. With this "regulated pattern," Stella explained, he forced "illusionistic space out of the painting at a constant rate." Working freehand, he applied the commercial black enamel paint with a housepainter's brush; slight irregularities are visible. Stella made this painting for MoMA's exhibition Sixteen Americans in 1959, at which time the Museum purchased it.
This painting features three distinct zones: a still life of fruit in the foreground, a row of three blue goblets and apples diagonally bisecting the canvas, and three puppies drinking from a large pan. The incongruous scale and placement of these objects on a dramatically upturned tabletop results in a disorienting composition. When Gauguin painted Still Life with Three Puppies, he was living in Brittany among a group of experimental painters. He abandoned naturalistic depictions and colors, declaring that "art is an abstraction" to be derived "from nature while dreaming before it." The puppies bodies, for example, are outlined in bold blue, and the patterning of their coats mirrors the botanic print of the tablecloth. It is thought that Gauguin drew stylistic inspiration for this painting from children's book illustrations and from Japanese prints, which were introduced to him by his friend and fellow artist Vincent van Gogh that same year.
This painting—featuring a parade of X's marching across the canvas—is a variation on an earlier drawing in which Guyton typed the characters onto a sheet of paper. He made this painting by folding a piece of linen in half vertically and pulling it through an inkjet printer, so the two halves were created autonomously and successively. In this way, the artist relinquished control over smudges, streaks, blurs, overlaps, and alignment. He relied on the effects of chance and mechanical reproduction—two central strategies in twentieth-century artistic production—which he updated using twenty-first-century home-office technology.
This painting is one in a series of seascapes Seurat painted in the French coastal village of Grandcamp during the summer of 1885. Short horizontal brushstrokes fill the sky and sea, and the land is composed of dots of color. "Some say they see poetry in my paintings," Seurat wrote. "I see only science." Dissatisfied with the technique of the Impressionists, which he considered spontaneous and unmethodical, Seurat turned to color theory and optics to develop his own method of painting, which he called Divisionism. Instead of mixing colors together on his palette, he applied unmixed paints to the canvas, leaving it to the viewer's eye to mix the colors optically. Seurat added the painted border later to complement the colors on the canvas and intensify its luminosity.
This painting is one of a series referencing Ocean Park, the beach landscape near Diebenkorn's California studio. Diebenkorn spent two decades developing this series, in which he gradually moved away from his earlier, more directly representational work. In Ocean Park 115 he evolved a type of abstraction characterized by a geometric division of space, sensuously worked surfaces, and luminous color. Diebenkorn explored new creative avenues in his work while maintaining a clear sense of balance and control. He stated, "My idea was simply to get all the elements right. By that I mean everything: color, form, space, line, composition, what all this might add up to—everything at once."
This painting is one of several monochromes in which Reinhardt explored the use of a vertical format. The combination of the white paint with the natural color of the underlying canvas emphasizes the composition.s tonal variations. The rough-edged, horizontal brushstrokes of varying length and paint saturation create a bricklike pattern that is at once structured and painterly. Reinhardt developed these brick forms with greater linearity and modularity in paintings such as Abstract Painting (Blue) of 1953.
This painting represents a group of three reclining nudes drinking tea or coffee in a chic apartment. While the reclining nude is a common subject in art history, these women's bodies have been simplified into rounded and dislocated forms, their skin not soft but firm, buffed, and polished. The machinelike precision and solidity with which Léger renders human form relates to his faith in modern industry and to his hope that art and the machine age would together reverse the chaos unleashed by World War I.
This painting shares its lozenge shape and geometric division of color with many paintings by Piet Mondrian, whose work Bill collected and in whom he was greatly interested. Bill trained at the Bauhaus in the 1920s under Josef Albers and was an architect and graphic designer as well as an artist. In his work he aimed to transcend personal artistic expression to achieve universal communication, and to this end he used mathematics as a neutralizing compositional device. The subject of an exhibition at the Museu de Arte de São Paulo in 1950 and winner of the grand prize for sculpture at the São Paulo Bienal in 1951, he helped to introduce a generation of Latin American artists to European geometric abstraction. He designed the catalogue for a 1955 Mondrian exhibition at the Zurich Kunsthaus, and lent to it three Mondrian paintings from his collection.
This photograph invites any number of scenarios to explain the intimate drama at this fancy party, but declines to endorse any single one. Who, for example, might be romantically involved with whom? What has provoked the anxious stare of the woman in the background? We shall never know the answers to these questions.Winogrand loved to observe the behavior of humans and other animals, and he loved photography's voracious capacity for description, but he did not confuse the two. In his pictures he created a parallel theater of experience, the force of which resides not in the reliability of its facts but in the liveliness of its fictions.This picture belongs to a long series, begun in the late 1960s, made at demonstrations, press conferences, and other gatherings whose participants expected to be noticed and, often, photographed. For the photographer Tod Papageorge, Winogrand's series vividly evokes the 1960s by offering "a unilateral report of how we behaved under pressure during a time of costumes and causes, and of how extravagantly, outrageously, and continuously we displayed what we wanted."
This picture appeared in DeCarava's book The Sweet Flypaper of Life, in 1955, with a text by the American poet Langston Hughes. The book has been praised as a sympathetic view of everyday life in Harlem, New York, drawn by two members of the community rather than by visiting sociologists or reformers. The praise is reasonable as far as it goes, but it fails to note the originality of the photographs DeCarava made behind closed doors, which describe his friends with the same gentleness and warmth they accord to each other. No photographer before him had pictured domestic life—black or white—with such unsentimental tenderness.To make a picture, a photographer must be in the presence of the subject. This simple fact, often overlooked, except where inaccessible mountain peaks or bloody battlefields plainly have demanded the photographer's resourcefulness or heroism, is a fundamental condition of photography. It helps to explain the relative rarity (apart from snapshots) of intimate pictures of domestic life: to photograph in another person's home, the photographer must be invited inside.
This picture is large for a photograph—six by eight feet. It measures itself not against its mammoth subject but against the human viewer, and against other works of art. Gursky emerged from art school in Düsseldorf, Germany, in the mid-1980s, just as photographers were beginning to compete successfully with painters for attention and space on the walls of galleries and museums. In the process they discovered new opportunities in scale. Here the viewer is assaulted from afar by the eye-popping bands of color but, upon approaching, is invited to study in detail the vast atrium of the Marriott Marquis Hotel, built in New York's Times Square in 1985.In fact, the picture is, to a considerable degree, an invention—a seamless image derived from photographs but recomposed and otherwise manipulated in Gursky's computer. It is at once hyper-real and unreal, an indelible image of our artificial world, made with the aid of the tool of our time.
This picture may be read as a symbol—of Eve's temptation in the Garden of Eden, perhaps, or of harmony between nature and mankind. Yet it presents itself as an immediate, sensual experience. You can almost feel yourself reaching up to the apples covered with dew and ripe for the picking.Stieglitz was fifty-eight years old when he made this photograph at his family's estate on Lake George, New York, where he spent his summers from childhood to old age. At the turn of the century, it had seemed to him that photography, to become an art, must emulate the other arts and so restrain or  disguise its earthbound realism. Later, in the 1920s, he helped to prove in his own photographs that engaging the stubborn specificity of his medium was itself a fine art.
This piece grew out of Horn's early fascination with stained glass windows and her subsequent training in glassmaking. It was cast from the highly refined and completely transparent optical glass used for manufacturing lenses and prisms. The title, which Horn intends to act as "an entrance to something but never an explanation," refers to the legendary vocalist Aretha Franklin.
This portfolio, published four years after Schiele's untimely death from influenza in 1918, contains eight of the seventeen prints the artist made during his brief career, including examples of his signature sinuous nudes. The discomfort of their contorted poses seems especially acute in the drypoints, which feature sharply scratched lines and prickled edges. Schiele had been encouraged to try printmaking by his patron, art critic Arthur Roessler, who believed it would provide the artist access to the large German print market. Roessler and Franz Hauer, another supporter, appear in two of the portraits in this portfolio.
This portrait depicts Marie-Thérèse Walter, whom Picasso met on a street in Paris in 1927. She was nearly thirty years his junior and he was married with a child. They began an affair almost immediately. She gave birth to their daughter, Maya, in 1935.
This portrait of Joseph Roulin is one of six van Gogh painted of his close friend, a postal employee in the southern French town of Arles, a fifteen-hour train ride from Paris. Van Gogh had moved to Arles in 1888, hoping to create an artists cooperative there. The plan never came to fruition, and the artist became lonely and isolated. He found comfort and companionship with the Roulin family, and they are the subjects of many of his paintings. In this portrait, Roulin is depicted in the uniform he always wore proudly, set against an imaginative backdrop of swirling flowers. In a letter to his brother Theo, the artist wrote that, of all genres, "the modern portrait" excited him the most: "I want to paint men and women with that something of the eternal which the halo used to symbolize, and which we try to convey by the actual radiance and vibration of our coloring."
This poster advertised the Polish National Opera's production of Alban Berg's avant-garde opera about ordinary people striving for dignity in the face of abuse and brutality. The psychedelic aesthetic Lenica used to convey psychological torment, like the grating atonality of Berg's music, resonated in an atmosphere of escalating tension within the Communist Bloc. Some fifteen thousand of these posters were printed in Poland, and it soon assumed cult status in Western Europe. It was awarded a Gold Medal at the first Warsaw International Poster Biennale in 1966.
This poster advertises an exhibition of avant-garde posters from Tschichold's personal collection, signaling his association with an international constellation of designers. The group's identity was established through a strategic use of revolutionary red and a lowercase, "universal" typeface that could not be linked with individual artistic styles or national traditions such as the German black-letter Gothic. "Only anonymity in the elements we use and the application of laws transcending self," Tschichold wrote, "assures the emergence of a general, collective culture which will encompass all expressions of life, including typography." This poster is a textbook example of principles outlined in his influential book Die Neue Typographie (1928). The simplest of elements—black, red, vertically and horizontally placed text, asymmetry, and balance—are combined in a rational abstract composition that enhances the communicative function of the poster.
This poster and the play it advertises transform ordinary people into absurdly grotesque and enigmatic figures. To capture the play's tragicomic feel, Lenica drew inspiration from the witty and macabre collages by the German Surrealist artist Max Ernst. Set in the town of Güllen ("liquid shit" in Swiss dialect), Dürrenmatt's famous play deals with the helplessness and corruptibility of the individual in society as an entire community eventually succumbs to murdering one of its members out of sheer greed. While this production ran in Warsaw the same play opened on Broadway, mesmerizing audiences on either side of the Iron Curtain.
This poster announcing a slide talk to be given by a guest lecturer, Hans Poelzig, an architect and professor, exemplifies what came to be known as the “new typography” of the 1920s: a strict use of sans-serif type, a single type treatment (here the exclusive use of uppercase letters), an underlying grid for the layout, and an asymmetrical composition. This revolutionary arrangement of type afforded a greater rationalism in the organization and communication of information.As director of the new printing workshop established at the Bauhaus in 1925, Bayer had sought to overturn the typography styles prevailing in the early part of the twentieth century, in particular the overly decorative typefaces of the Art Nouveau and Gothic lettering commonly used in Germany. Building on what he had learned as a Bauhaus student under László Moholy-Nagy, Bayer promoted a new form of typography, a logical and universal means of graphic expression aimed, above all, at clarity. Bayer hoped to do what he called “a thorough alphabetical house-cleaning” in all publications issued by the Bauhaus. He and other devotees of the new style discarded the art of illustration, which they found subjective, in favor of unadorned typography, photography, and the modern technique of collage.
This poster featuring a terrifying Death figure reflected a common fear in the turbulent aftermath of World War I in Germany—that the 1917 Bolshevik revolution in Russia might be replicated in Germany.
This poster promoted the 1968 psychedelic comedy film Head, written by Bob Rafelson and Jack Nicholson and directed by Rafelson. John Brockman, a young producer associated with Andy Warhol's Factory, created the trailer and advertising for the film using images of his own head, even though he does not appear in the film. Head's stars are the Monkees, the "prefab four," created for a mid-1960s American television series. The Monkees approached this project as a chance to disassociate themselves from the media machine that had created them. (They sing, "Hey, hey, we're the Monkees /You know we love to please / A manufactured image / With no philosophies.") The plotless film presents series of wacky vignettes filled with pop-culture parodies and musical numbers.
This poster uses the same imagery as the twelve-inch version of the band's first record, released under their own Anonymous Records label. The gloomy, richly tonal photograph of industrial scaffolding replaced the controversial cover design of the EP that featured a Hitler Youth member beating a drum, with the words "Joy! Division" in black-letter font, arousing suspicions that the band had Nazi sympathies.
This print echoes the Prison series of small sculptures Bontecou was making at the time, in which menacing-looking objects, often mechanical parts and other leftovers the artist picked up on the street, are trapped behind striated bands of metal.
This print is related to Stella's earlier paintings of concentric squares, some in gray tones and others exploring color values. Here he alternates between colors and gray, combining—or "scrambling"—the squares of the earlier projects.
This print reuses lithographic plates from Savarin (1977). Here the brush–filled coffee can sculpture acts as a surrogate for the artist. Johns based this work on a lithographic self–portrait by the Norwegian artist Edvard Munch (1866–1944) in which Munch depicted a skeletal arm beneath his face. Johns's pays homage to Munch with the initials E. M. at the bottom right.
This print, which the artist made shortly after his discharge from military service following a nervous breakdown, represents the riding instruction Kirchner had received as part of his training. The anxiety he felt about his service is conveyed in the nervous energy of his gestural style. Kirchner suffered from medical and psychological problems for the rest of his life as a result of the war; he committed suicide in 1938.
This program documents the mix of avant-garde music, theater and poetry on offer at this fashionable nightspot. The venue, opened in 1907, operated under the auspices of the Wiener Werkstätte, a cooperative of avant-garde architects, artists, and designers. The combined role of music and design in this venture exemplified the idea of the Gesamtkunstwerk or total work of art in that the same aesthetic principles were applied to the programming and venue as to the design of the program.
This project by Hadid, whose work has been called "deconstructivist," was the winning design in a competition for a private club to be located in the hills of Kowloon, overlooking Hong Kong. Hadid proposed a transformation of the site itself by excavating the hills and using the excavated rock to build artificial cliffs. Into this new topography, she interjected cantilevered beams, shardlike fragments, and other elements that seemed to splinter the structure into its myriad constituent parts, as if it had been subjected to some powerful de–stabilizing force.Seemingly defiant of gravity, the forms of Hadid's project hover and float, animated by the same visionary power that marked the ground–breaking Constructivist structures that Vladimir Tatlin, El Lissitzky, and Moisei Ginzburg imagined would arise in a new, postrevolutionary Soviet society. That seeming instability, which can also be found in the works of a number of other architects active in the 1980s, has been related to the literary movement of deconstruction, whose principal interpreter, the French philosopher Jacques Derrida, has become a familiar figure within contemporary debates on architectural theory.
This "ray gun," as Oldenburg calls it, hardly looks threatening. Its bloated shape, made out of flimsy papier–mâché, resembles a hairdryer as much as it does a weapon. It was made, however, in the spirit of assault, as a parody of artistic traditions and consumer culture. In the 1960s, this work was part of a cacophonous installation called The Street in the basement of Judson Memorial Church in lower Manhattan. The space was filled with an unruly assortment of cardboard and newspaper scraps, burlap objects covered in soot and black paint, and other materials that appeared destined for (if not taken from) the trash. Oldenburg performed in the space on several occasions and in one particularly memorable instance issued one million dollars of Ray Gun currency to audience members, which could be used for purchasing works from the installation.
This rhythmic and intense composition featuring energetic figures contained by a rectangular field captures the turbulence of the era and a burgeoning taste for Futurist and Expressionist design. The poster publicizes an exhibition by MA ("Today" in Hungarian), a group that emerged during World War I and quickly became a leader in the Budapest avant-garde. The first issue of its journal set its revolutionary tone: "The new painter is a moral individual, full of faith and a desire for unity! And his pictures are weapons of war!"
This scheme for five linked towers was designed by a project-specific team of architects for the site of the former World Trade Center towers. The principal elements of each tower are a twenty-foot-square concrete core and two or more column-free volumes of habitable space that wrap around it. The supporting framework is a diagonally braced skin; its flexibility and strength allow the exterior tubes to expand and contract as they wrap around the core, producing the dynamic appearance of the ensemble. Each of the five towers is designed to be a self-supporting structure. Conjoined, they are able to resist tremendous forces through mutual support, and unlike a traditional freestanding vertical tower, they offer multiple routes of escape and firefighting access. A "sky park" creates a lofty horizon at the fifty-fifth floor, linking all the towers and bringing public access and social space to the highest common point of the five structures.The project celebrates the tall building as a technical and cultural artifact. The towers soar to an awe-inspiring height and create a remarkable silhouette across the skyline, a symbol of collectivity; their gaps frame views, channel circulation, and create monumental urban spaces, including public space at street level.
This sculpture, from a series of works by Orozco that reinterpret games, appears at first to be a chessboard—a simple, everyday, readymade object, in the tradition of Marcel Duchamp. However, closer examination reveals a logic that subverts the conventional game. Orozco's chessboard is made of four colors instead of the standard two, and the traditional eight-by-eight board has been reconfigured to be sixteen by sixteen, with 256 squares. Instead of including the usual thirty-two pieces (kings, queens, rooks, bishops, knights, and pawns), Orozco has made all the players knights. In this game knights can play on indefinitely, turning through space infinitely, unchecked by other players.Orozco orchestrates space and movement by changing the logic of a rational, rule-bound game. With a poetic sensibility, he creates a visual paradox, an endless imaginary trajectory of space and a compelling vision of time without end. This theme of perceptual discovery recurs in Orozco's diverse oeuvre, which includes sculpture, installation, photo-graphy, painting, and drawing.
This sculpture is part of a series of fifteen small bronze medals Smith made early in his career (1937–40) in response to the growth of fascism in Europe in the years leading up to World War II. He developed the project after spending time in Greece, where he studied ancient coins and seals, and in London, where he saw medals that satirized figures and events from World War I. Smith approached the tradition of military decoration and commemorative medallions—symbols of glory and distinction—with bitter irony. His bronzes "honor" some of war's most deplorable actions: the bombing of civilians, human medical experimentation, and, in this case, the use of poisonous gas as a weapon. The graphic iconography of the medals is drawn from sources ranging from Northern Renaissance painting to photographs in medical textbooks.
This sculpture—part theatrical maquette, part multi-layered painting—is composed of eleven painted glass panes that juxtapose several distinct and peculiar worlds. At the margins the proscenium arch, receding stage floor, and inkwell evoke the stage and an unseen playwright, highlighting the orchestrated, artificial character of painting. Behind these Dalí contrasts an idyllic Arcadian scene with a barren, ruined landscape. Dalí's unique construction was inspired by his longstanding fascination with optical devices and with the theater.
This sculpture represents Kwannon (also known as Kannon), the Buddhist goddess of mercy and an attendant of Buddha. Lassaw thickened steel wire with molten bronze, creating an openwork metal scaffolding of irregular lines and voids—what he called a “drawing in space.” Lassaw wrote of this abstract figure, “Although I never try to depict or narrate or communicate, I feel that something of Kwannon entered this piece of sculpture.”
This sequence of photographs depicts an ever-increasing number of people sitting in a restaurant, numbered in neon above. These numbers follow  the Fibonacci series, a system of growth (often seen in nature) that perpetuates itself by adding the two previous elements to arrive at the next. Merz began using the series in 1970. He has said, "I did not understand why a work of art had to be a certain length when it could be infinite. . . . In the Fibonacci series, there are no spatial limitations because space becomes infinite—not abstract infinity, but biological infinity."
This set of kitchen utensils belongs to the clean-lined, stainless steel "mono" series for which Raacke is best known. The series began in the late 1950s with mono-a (for alpha), which was followed by numerous iterations into the early 1980s, including mono petit for children. Raacke, who trained in gold- and silversmithing, also designed cardboard furniture and a diesel locomotive. He cofounded the Association of German Industrial Designers (VDID) in 1959 and taught for more than thirty years at major German universities. Along with Max Bill, he is associated with the reemergence of "good design" in Europe after World War II.
This side chair was the product of a team research project led by Breuer, a celebrated architect and Bauhaus émigré known for his tubular metal furniture. Collaborating with the United States Forest Products Laboratory (a division of the Department of Agriculture), he combined knowledge accumulated over fifteen years of experimentation with plywood and recent developments in high-frequency gluing. The team's report boasted of the chair's ability to carry a load of five hundred pounds, and the competition jury described the design as "ingeniously articulated."
This sketch for one of Sir Norman Foster's best-known buildings is only one of the 120,000 or so drawings that were produced for the project, yet it's subjective assertiveness makes it a clear declaration of the architect's technical and visual intentions. Provisional as it appears, it plainly demonstrates the character and stance of the future headquarters of the Hongkong and Shanghai Bank. Made of eight vertical mast assemblies and five great trusses that provide lateral stiffness and support the floors, the complex structure, engineered by the premier firm of Ove Arup & Partners, reveals itself on its surface to dramatic expressive effect. The lateral view shows the towers that contain the elevators, utilities, and stairs, as well as the trusses working as wind braces. Foster won a competition to replace the bank's old headquarters, built in 1936. The site faces north, toward mainland China, and also overlooks Statue Square and the harbor. Foster's building is magnificent and majestic, but it was initially criticized by Hong Kong residents because of its indifference to the rules of feng shui, the Chinese system of harmonizing oneself physically with the natural universe. (Among other defects, the building arrested the paths of dragons coming down from the mountain to drink from the bay.) As a matter of fact, Foster's buildings often reveal a deeper interest in themselves than in the rest of the world; their exploration of their own internal possibilities, and of the possibilities of technology, is often a stronger motive in the design than any concern for the building's site or for the local culture. It is through this single-mindedness, on the other hand, that Foster's work has advanced architecture. His contributions to the built world—whether in London, Tokyo, or Hong Kong—have sometimes made earthly cities more interesting than science fiction.Originally from TextEntryID 73734 (TextTypeID 133)add link to "the lateral view",  (356.1996.2)
This smoking Klansman doubles as a self-portrait. In the late phase of a long career, Guston explored a satiric vision of himself and the world.  In the 1930s and 1940s he had been a politically engaged painter, influenced by Mexican Muralism. His work then evolved into an Abstract Expressionist style. It was only in the last decade of his life that he turned back to figuration, with a comic and ironic sensibility.
This steel sculpture with satyrlike forms was named after LeRoy Borton, a blacksmith who had helped Smith power forge a series of sculptures the previous year. "Borton's interest in my work was more than that of the subcontracting of man and machine," Smith said. "He was an excellent craftsman developed in the old school of hard forging, tempering of chisels, wagon repair, etc. In the days we worked together we became friendly, talking of metal working methods, etc. . . .History of LeRoy Borton is an homage to a friend."
This storage pot was slip-cast from a plaster mold, a method used for mass-producing ceramics. Designed by Bogler in the ceramics workshops of the Bauhaus, the robust, simple form reflected the school's conviction that basic geometric shapes were well suited to industrial production. Given the depressed state of the economy and the uneven quality of the prototypes, however, the pots were never licensed for large-scale manufacture, despite initial interest at trade fairs in both Frankfurt and Leipzig.
This study for the most famous of the Futurist war paintings, The Armored Train (1915), incorporates an unusual aerial perspective in its depiction of a train filled with armed soldiers. Severini enjoyed a unique vantage point—his Paris studio overlooked the Denfert-Rochereau station, from which he was able to observe the constant movement of trains filled with soldiers, supplies, and weaponry. Although Severini remained a noncombatant during World War I, he took the advice of fellow Futurist artist Filippo Tommaso Marinetti to "try to live the war pictorially, studying it in all its marvelous mechanical forms." The Futurists glorified modern technology, and World War I, the first war of the twentieth century to employ the technological achievements of the industrial age in a program of mass destruction, was for them the most important spectacle of the modern era. Their admiration for speed—made possible by machinery—is represented here by the fractured landscape, which accentuates the train's force and momentum as it cuts through the countryside.Armored Train in Action foreshadows a fundamental principle of Severini's later art: the "image-idea," in which a single image expresses the essence of an idea. Through a depiction of the plastic realities of war—a train, canon, guns, and soldiers—he provides a pictorial vocabulary necessary to grasp its deeper symbolism.
This Surrealist object was inspired by a conversation between Oppenheim and artists Pablo Picasso and Dora Maar at a Paris cafe. Admiring Oppenheim's fur-covered bracelet, Picasso remarked that one could cover anything with fur, to which she replied, "Even this cup and saucer." Soon after, when asked by André Breton, Surrealism's leader, to participate in the first Surrealist exhibition dedicated to objects, Oppenheim bought a teacup, saucer, and spoon at a department store and covered them with the fur of a Chinese gazelle. In so doing, she transformed genteel items traditionally associated with feminine decorum into sensuous, sexually punning tableware.
This textile was one of a series that Raymond designed for MoMA's Organic Design in Home Furnishings competition and exhibition in 1940–41. Like Eileen Gray's lacquer screen (on display on this platform), it represents a creative response to Japanese aesthetic and craft traditions. Raymond had lived in Tokyo for eleven years with her husband and collaborator, architect Antonin Raymond. "The doing away with all but essentials, or discipline, is the basis of Japanese charm," the Raymonds observed in 1935. "Everything serves a precise purpose and is only satisfactory relative to that purpose. The highest satisfaction which a Japanese experiences is to be found in the harmony which he perceives between the idea, the act and the material. . . . It is through increased simplicity and elimination that the man of taste finds elegance. . . . All is the direct result of a necessity, be it material or spiritual.”
This unified series of kitchenwares by chemist and inventor Schlumbohm epitomizes the kitchen–as–laboratory concept—a hallmark of the interwar New Kitchen—as it continued beyond World War II. After immigrating to the United States from Germany in 1935, Schlumbohm created the famous Chemex coffeemaker, inspired in spirit by the Bauhaus school of design and in form by laboratory equipment such as the Erlenmeyer flask. A feature of James Bond's breakfast in From Russia with Love, this was the most successful design of the more than 300 he patented.
This untitled work is a convex, spray-painted disk held a foot or so out from the wall by a central post. Its subtle, tactile surface modulates delicately from center to edge, and it is softly lit from four angles, creating a cloverleaf pattern of shadow. The white center of the disk can seem to lie level with the white wall, so that the eye spends time trying to understand what it sees—what is nearer and what is farther, what is solid and what is immaterial light, or even light's absence. For Irwin, the result is "this indeterminate physicality with different levels of weight and density, each on a different physical plane. It [is] very beautiful and quite confusing, everything starting and reversing."Evading confinement by the rectangle of the conventional painting, Irwin's disks literally extend past their own boundaries—spread out into their environment, which is as much a part of them as their own substance. The idea, in part, extends the Abstract Expressionist notion of an infinite, all–encompassing, allover field, but with the qualification that for Irwin, "To be an artist is not a matter of making paintings or objects at all. What we are really dealing with is our state of consciousness and the shape of our perceptions."
This vast complex, home to Norway's national opera and ballet companies, has quickly become a new national symbol, much as Jørn Utzon's Sydney Opera House did for Australia decades ago. Envisioned by Snøhetta as a glass and marble "wave wall" where the city meets the ocean, the site was designed as a large white wedge that slopes down into the water. The slanted roof has been transformed into a large public plaza closely connected to the surrounding fjord. Available for around-the-clock use, the roof is a new type of city park in which distinctions between architectural and landscape design, music and dance are productively blurred.
This video documentary is an assemblage of stories, music, text, and film that examines and reconstructs the relationship between alternative religions and rock music in their development and practice. The video opens with punk musicians wildly shaking their bodies onstage to the sound of an electric guitar, alternating with woodcut illustrations of Shakers, members of an eighteenth- and nineteenth-century religious movement named for the fervent dancing and writhing they performed to purify themselves of evil.The opening soundtrack layers and alternates between Graham's voice telling the story of Ann Lee, the Shaker who believed she was the second coming of Christ, and the music and voice of Patti Smith, an innovator of punk-rock music who has compared rock culture with religion. Rock My Religion continues by exploring historic American religious practices, including Native American, Puritan, and Shaker rituals, and the emergence of rock musicians like Jerry Lee Lewis, Elvis, and The Doors. Rock is interpreted as a religion with the potential for communal transcendental experience, but one that inverts traditional pieties with sexualized religious dance. Graham focuses on the social and sexual origins and implications of rock and roll, and his historical reconstruction provides a framework for the interpretation of the rituals of rock and punk culture as forms of religious practice.
This wallpaper depicts a fantasy city Noble calls Nobson Newtown. While his investigations of this subject usually take the form of monumental drawings, this version creates an even more all-encompassing impact. Noble envisioned his wallpaper filling the walls of a bedroom, evoking both dreams and nightmares.
This was intended by Kokoschka to be a children's book, but the powerful Expressionist poem of sexual longing and suggestive images of dense forests, frolicking animals, and undulating waters teeming with jumping red fish are not typical children's fare. Although the flat bright colors and sharp black outlines are in keeping with the ornamental style then favored in Vienna, Kokoschka's awkward, gangly figures show him beginning to move towards a more emotionally expressive style and more provocative content. This is the first of many books he wrote and illustrated.
This was one of several giant posters of performers designed to be sold during the legendary UK tour organized by Stiff Records. According to the photographer Gabrin, these did not sell "because they were so huge none of the punters could be bothered to carry them home.” Deliberately crude overlaps of lurid colors over the photograph create an image of Costello that the record label's producer described as "like Buddy Holly on acid." Musician Billy Bragg commented on Bubbles's "unerring ability to make unprepossessing blokes look cool, Elvis Costello, Ian Dury, Johnny Moped, mewe were misfits in the pantheon of pop and Barney made us look magnificent."
This woodcut is a grim testament to the hopelessness felt by the many elderly Germans whose lives had been destroyed by the hyperinflation of 1923–24, which eradicated their savings and made their pensions worthless. Kollwitz donated the sales proceeds to a social aid organization for the old.
This work belongs to a group of abstractions inspired by the landscape. In them de Kooning simplified his visual vocabulary to a few powerful, expansive brushstrokes that evoke the vistas of color found in the natural world. He described the experience that inspired these works: “Just coming around roads, some place, and having the sensation of a piece of it, a piece of nature, like a fence, something on the road.  And I really get very elated by again looking, by again seeing that the sky is blue, that the grass is green.”
This work belongs to a limited series of three–dimensional drawings Ferrari made in the early 1960s, retrospectively called Writings in the Air after the title of a book produced by the artist and his friend the poet Rafael Alberti in 1964. A boxlike object, Reflections is contained by two flat surfaces composed of intricate, abstract gestural ink lines on paper and glass. The wires contained within it reproduce the convoluted lines of the drawing at the back of the box, one of Ferrari's stylistic signatures of the 1960s.  This three-dimensional duplication of a conventional drawing makes Reflections a material tautology. In that sense this work belongs to a very specific repertoire of Latin American Conceptual art that instead of producing art as ideas addresses material objects as concepts.
This work belongs to a series of eight black paintings Rodchenko made in direct response to a group of white paintings of the same year by the older and more established artist Kazimir Malevich. Malevich relied on a severely reduced palette of whites to suggest a floating form in an infinite spatial expanse; Rodchenko moved toward eliminating color completely in order to focus instead on the material quality of the paintings surface. "Where the black works are winning is in the fact that they have no color, they are strong through painting . . . ," declared artist Varvara Stepanova, Rodchenko's wife. "Nothing besides painting exists." Both series were first shown in Moscow in April 1919, in the 10th State Exhibition: Non-Objective Art and Suprematism. The black works were received with enthusiasm and helped establish Rodchenko as a leader of the Russian avant-garde.
This work is one of two of Miró's 1930 wood and metal constructions that are known to have survived. These constructions were made from pieces of wood that could easily have been found at a carpentry shop. Sharp nails are hammered through the red wooden circle at the top left of this composition. Their tips aim outward in an aggressive challenge to traditional artistry and figuration.
This work is part of a series of language-based black-and-white paintings Wool began making in the mid-1980s. While he wrote many of the phrases he used in these works himself, he borrowed or adapted others from alternative sources. This line appears in the 1957 movie Sweet Smell of Success, written by Ernest Lehman and Clifford Odets. It is a bit of code uttered by one of the characters to indicate that a dirty job has been completed. Wool recalls being struck by the poetry of the phrase and its sinister terseness.
This work marries color and light, bringing them into three dimensions. In dialogue with the surrounding space, the vertical and horizontal tubes both illuminate and obscure the corner—a location not typically used for displaying art. Though the emitted light transcends its physical encasement and transforms the surrounding space, Flavin rejected any characterization of his work as sublime. “One might not think of light as a matter of fact, but I do,” he stated. “And it is . . . as plain and open and direct an art as you will ever find.” Flavin began to use commercially available fluorescent light tubes in 1963.
This work resulted from a composite representation of several gasoline stations seen by the artist. The light in this painting—both natural and artificial—gives the scene of a gas station and its lone attendant at dusk an underlying sense of drama. But rather than simply depicting a straightforward narrative, Hopper's aim was "the most exact transcription possible of my most intimate impressions of nature"—in this case, the loneliness of an American country road. Fellow artist Charles Burchfield believed these paintings would remain memorable beyond their time, because in his "honest presentation of the American scene . . . Hopper does not insist upon what the beholder shall feel."
This work was commissioned by the Museum in 1940 for the landmark exhibition Twenty Centuries of Mexican Art. It was painted by Orozco over a period of ten days, often in front of the viewing public.This six-panel fresco (intended to be arranged in any order) depicts abstracted elements of mechanical warfare, including the tail and wings of a bomber, tanktreads, and chains—as well as a pair of upturned human legs. Ironically, though, Orozco insisted it had "no political significance." He stated, "I simply paint the life that is going on at the present—what we are and what the world is at this moment. That is what modern art is."
This work was made by Rollins and nine members of K.O.S. (Kids of Survival), a group of teenagers from the South Bronx who collaborate with Rollins to create visual art based on works of literature. In response to Franz Kafka's novel Amerika (1927), the artists painted golden horns of various configurations on top of pages from the book. Karl Rossman, the protagonist of Kafka's novel, emigrates to New York in search of freedom and work, only to be confronted with oppression and destitution. Karl is recruited to join a mysterious project called the Nature Theatre of Oklahoma, where he encounters hundreds of women dressed as angels elevated on concealed platforms, playing golden horns. Beneath the painted elements, the book pages form a grid that supports the more organic shapes, creating an image that, according to Rollins, is at once "unified and chaotic, elegant and furious."
This work, with its striking upward perspective, is based on a photograph Sasnal took of his wife, Anka. Sasnal explores the possibilities and boundaries of painting and of seeing rather than addressing any specific set of narrative or abstract subjects. He makes paintings and drawings in a multiplicity of styles, depending on a broad array of source materials and art-historical precedents.
Though abstract and "deliberately freehand," the repeated vertical bands in this painting suggest imprisonment, while the rectangle can be read as a window. Keenly aware of Surrealism's interest in unrehearsed or "automatic" gestures, Motherwell began this painting by pouring thin, dark pigment on the canvas. The Little Spanish Prison's bright palette was inspired by the artist's recent trip to Mexico, while its title refers to the Spanish Civil War (1936–39)—a subject that remained important to the artist. Motherwell painted the magenta rectangle black in the late 1940s, then revealed the original color again twenty years later. He considered this painting "the first picture in which I hit something that is deep in my character."
Though Bourgeois has described Sleeping Figure as "a war figure that cannot face the world and is defensive," likening its face to a mask and its arms to lances, the work's narrow, tapered shape suggests vulnerability and its jutting limbs seem to support rather than defend its body. Sleeping Figure belongs to The Personages, a group of more than eighty totemic wood sculptures the artist made in New York between 1945 and 1950. Bourgeois has characterized these works as surrogates for the family and friends she left behind in France when she moved to New York in 1938. Although she was never formally part of the Paris-based group, Bourgeois knew many Surrealist poets and artists and shared their interest in primitive art and the unconscious. In spite of these affinities, her work can be understood as a rejection of the male-dominated movement. While the form of this figure is phallic, its gender is ambiguous—a departure from Surrealism's objectification and fragmentation of female bodies.
Though Cézanne rarely hired professional models, an Italian named Michelangelo di Rosa was the subject for this work—one in a series of four paintings and two watercolors he made of this boy in a red vest.  Di Rosa is seen here in profile, casually hunched over with his hands on his lap. The short brushstrokes  and triangular composition of the work provide a sense of volume and underscore the monumental stability of the figure. In one account, the painting's first owner, the artist Claude Monet, referred to Boy in a Red Vest as the best picture he owned, and it inspired him to declare of his contemporary, "Cézanne is the greatest of us all."
Though many Dadaist and Surrealist artists were practicing poets, Arp is one of the very few whose poetry stands in both quality and quantity as an important contribution in its own right. The involvement of the painters of these movements with poetry produced a variety of rapports between the two arts, some of which endowed their peinture-poésie with new and unexpected dimensions, but others of which tended to vitiate their painting through a dilution of aesthetic modes. Arp's collages, reliefs, and sculpture share with his poetry an iconography...a gentle whimsy, and a feeling of naturalness, but nowhere is their plasticity compromised.For three years prior to the emergence of his personal style in the winter of 1915/1916, Arp had worked within the discipline of Cubism. Then in collages, and in machine-sawn reliefs such as the Portrait of Tzara of 1916 and Enak's Tears of 1917, the prevailing rectilinear structures of the Cubist work dissolved under the pressure of a new curvilinear, "organic" morphology.This biomorphism had its roots in Art Nouveau, although there it was primarily linear in style and botanical in its associations. Arp established it in terms of closed flat forms that were endowed with anthropomorphic allusions as well....In the face of Analytic Cubism's searching but ultimately assured equilibrium and stasis, Arp's reliefs unwind in an improvisational, meandering manner that implies growth and change. Here is no longer the sober, classical scaffolding of the external world of architecture. The forms of the Portrait of Tzara and Enak's Tears, while describing nothing specifically, multiply associations to physiological and botanical processes, to sexuality, and through their very ambiguity, to humor. Although biomorphism initiated a new vocabulary of forms, it did not in itself constitute a style in the sense that Impressionism or Cubism did; nor did it generate any new comprehensive principle of design or distribution of the total surface, or of the illusion of space, in pictures. Rather it provided constituent shapes for paintings in a variety of styles. When more than one or two such shapes are used by the "abstract" Surrealists we almost always find them disposed in relation to one another and to the frame in a Cubist manner. Thus, while we may speak of the form-language or morphology of Arp, [André] Masson, and [Joan] Miró as anti-Cubist, this does not apply to the over-all structure of their compositions, since on that level these painters cling to organizational principles assimilated from the Cubism that all of them had practiced earlier.
Through drawings and films, Dean makes work that is frequently characterized by a poetic sensibility and fragmented narratives exploring past and present, fact and fiction. In this monumental printed work, she addresses themes of collective memory and lost history by combining the romantic legend of ill-fated medieval lovers Tristan and Isolde (whose initials give this piece its title) with the real-life tragedy of British sailor Donald Crowhurst. Dean often uses the sea and other maritime themes in her work, including the tale of Crowhurst, which has appeared in several of her projects.In 1968 Crowhurst sailed from England for a solo, round-the-world yacht race and never returned. In T & I Dean connects the tale of this lost sailor to the story of Tristan and Isolde—whose tragic love story also hinges on sea voyages—through her majestic depiction of a barren, rocky coastline looking seaward. This work, based on a found postcard, includes the white, cryptic notes that Dean often scribbles on her prints and drawings. Here the musings include "start" and "stage 4," clear theatrical directions, as well as fragments of a poem by "WSG" about an artist killed in an accident. The twenty-five-sheet composition suggests a cinematic narrative sequence, while reading it as a unified image has a breathtaking, visionary impact. The rich velvety texture of the photogravure medium contributes a nineteenth-century patina that is ideally suited to the intensity and foreboding melancholy of the subject.
Throughout his career, Frank Stella has been an innovator in both painting and printmaking. As a young artist, he became known for his reductive Minimalist paintings, executed in series that emphasized a single theme to which each painting presented a different solution or response. In 1967 he accepted master printer Kenneth Tyler's invitation to make prints at the Gemini G.E.L. workshop. There he continued the serial spare geometry of his paintings, often basing his prints on those paintings, while confronting a new set of challenges in terms of scale, ink, and paper choice. Stella's prints also afforded him the opportunity to rework certain concepts, as in the 1973 Double Gray Scramble, part of a brief but fruitful foray into screenprint, which combined earlier images of concentric squares in either gray tones or color values. In this work he alternates between color and gray, "scrambling" the squares of the earlier projects. Of Stella's more than two hundred fifty print projects to date, approximately one hundred fifty of them have been collaborations with Tyler at Gemini and later at Tyler Graphics, resulting in what has been called "one of the great partnerships in modern American art." Tyler's technical virtuosity and penchant for experimentation have made him the ideal partner for Stella, whose style has now evolved into a riot of color, baroque gesture, and three-dimensionality. Through complex, ambitious printing processes, specially formulated inks, and hand-dyed papers, Tyler and Stella have successfully translated the energy of his painted metal reliefs into several series of prints. Circuits, one such series, is based on the artist's long-standing interest in car racing, and each print, including Pergusa Three, is named for an international racetrack.
Throughout his career Samaras has obsessively made portraits and self-portraits in a variety of mediums, from drawing to sculpture to photography to video. In 1969 he began to experiment with Polaroid instant prints, which until the advent of digital cameras were the only medium that permitted a photographer to see an image soon after making an exposure. That capability was appealing to Samaras because it allowed him, while working alone, to repeatedly revise the outlandish settings, costumes, and performances from which he derived his self-portraits.For more than a decade, each new Polaroid product prompted Samaras to embark on a fresh suite of experiments. Panorama belongs to a series he began in 1982. For each image the artist made several eight-by-ten-inch Polaroids of a single figure. He then cut each print into strips of equal width and reassembled them to create an elongated hybrid image. This simple technique stretches the figure as a fun-house mirror would, yielding the quality of theatrical fantasy that permeates all of Samaras's work.
Throughout history, the artist has been a shaper of matter, whether the pigment of an image or the solid substance of sculpture. A Frontal Passage, like other works by Turrell, breaks from those ancient traditions in that it has no mass. Instead, Turrell shapes light. An interest in a dematerialized art object appears in a range of work from the 1960s and 1970s—in Conceptual art, for example, which posits art more as language and idea than as visual form. But Turrell differs from the Conceptualists in the absorbing sensual power his work commands. He is closer to the Minimalist sculptor Dan Flavin, who also worked with light; but where Flavin would incorporate not only the light of fluorescent tubes but the tubes themselves into his art's appearance, the fluorescents in A Frontal Passage are obscured. The spec-tacle is light itself, given the illusion of palpable shape.To view A Frontal Passage, the visitor passes through a darkened entryway into a chamber, also dark—but divided diagonally by a radiant yet crisply defined wall of red light. Instead of diffusing freely from one side of this wall to the other, the light ends abruptly in space, as if it had density. The power of the work lies in this paradox, in which nothingness gains physical presence.
Thrown into stark relief against a pitch-black ground, this truncated, leggy figure succinctly captures the leading character of Poor Cow—an eighteen-year-old runaway whose life deteriorates into objectification as a faceless prostitute. Her psychedelic minidress references the film's pop soundtrack and signals the widespread awareness in Poland of Western youth culture in the 1960s.
Tobey, a follower of Zen philosophy, believed that spiritual awakening could take place through everyday encounters. In The Void Devouring the Gadget Era, translucent tempera wash partially obscures a dense backdrop of fragmented symbols. Two years later, Tobey cleared his paintings of iconography and created allover patterns that resist a single focal point. Cage purchased one of these works shortly after its completion in 1944. He recalled that after leaving the gallery, “I happened to look at the pavement, and I noticed that the experience . . . was the same as the experience of looking at the Tobey.”Cage met Tobey in Seattle in the late 1930s, and he credited him for heightening his awareness of the phenomena that exist in ordinary occurrences. In his writings, Cage described a walk to a Japanese restaurant that extended over many hours as Tobey was “constantly stopping and pointing out things to see, opening my eyes.”
To counter faltering sales during the Great Depression, more adventurous manufacturers began to employ outside design consultants and invest in materials research. In the 1800s the Wagner Manufacturing Company had built a reputation for traditional cast-iron cookware, but in the early 1930s it introduced Magnalite, a patented magnesium/aluminum alloy. Rideout, one of a new generation of American industrial designers, was brought in to rework the appearance of the company's housewares, including this teakettle. His efforts, however, were focused on aesthetics more than functionality: the kettle's lid is semipermanently attached and may only be removed by first detaching the handle with a screwdriver.
"To draw in space": that, for González, was the exciting possibility in the art of his time. A painter and draftsman as well as a sculptor, González realized that by cutting, rolling, and bending metal, or fusing found metal pieces into an assemblage, he could draw images not on paper but in air, his instrument not a pencil but a welding torch. He often worked in iron, a tough, unyielding material utterly lacking in the fine sinuosity of the precious metals. The stiff spine, shallow curves, and spiky, spearlike lines and points of Woman Combing Her Hair seem integral to the medium itself, but the work tempers its austerity with a subtle eroticism.González himself associated iron with weaponry and with engineering, but wanted to direct it elsewhere. "It is high time," he wrote, "that this metal cease to be a murderer and the simple instrument of an overly mechanical science. Today, the door is opened wide to this material to be . . . forged and hammered by the peaceful hands of artists." Decorative ironwork is a Spanish tradition, and González learned it as a young man, but considered it only a craft until, in 1928, he began to advise Pablo Picasso on making iron sculpture—an experience that inspired him to become a sculptor himself.
To make these large drawings, Tottie began by creating a single freehand band of india ink at the top of the sheet. Then, with each subsequent band, she followed the minor inconsistencies of the original, amplifying and exaggerating the irregularities to create a wavelike, abstract pattern across the expanses of the sheets. "In this way," Tottie has explained, "the drawing proceeds by way of the first barely visible, then more and more extreme shifts produced by the previous line." Since the 1990s, Tottie has been experimentingwith generating abstraction through an underlying system or concept.
To make this 1969 editioned painting, Roth brushed a thick layer of liquefied chocolate directly onto a heavy steel plate. Over time, the chocolate has cracked, developed a bloom (a thin, whitish layer of fat), and been host to tiny insects, as evidenced by the small holes covering the surface. The work is titled after the Rhine river—which flows through Basel, one of the cities where Roth lived for a time—and recalls his assertion that “nature looks like an abstract painting.”
To make this drawing, Warhol started by tracing the soup-can logo from a mailing envelope sent by the Campbell's Soup Company onto a sheet of paper. He likely enlarged that tracing in a projection, which he then traced again on this sheet. The thirty-two paintings that make up Campbells' Soup Cans  are also based on the same soup-can logo. Warhol may have used pencil drawings like this one to increase the size of the projected image in stages, which helped to preserve the graphic clarity of the logo when it reached the larger scale of the canvases.
To make this picture, Talbot laid a piece of lace on chemically sensitized paper and allowed the light of the sun gradually to fix its negative image precisely, down to the smallest fold or imperfection. This simple operation had never been possible before photography was invented.The invention was made public in January 1839, when France announced the daguerreotype as its gift to the world. Talbot, who independently had invented another form of photography several years earlier, then quickly stated his own claim. His process, in which any number of positive paper prints could be made from a single negative, soon triumphed over the daguerreotype process, which produced unique pictures on metal.Talbot's Lace is not merely a copy of unprecedented ease and fidelity. It is also a picture, which transposed the lace from the realm of objects to the realm of pictures, where it has enjoyed a new and unpredictable life.
Tormented Self-Portrait (Susie at Arles) is an unconventional self-portrait. At the center of the work are brand names that represent day-to-day consumer choices. At the margins the artist repeats "Susie," his signature and trademark for this series, in the graphic style of a corporate logo. The work was inspired by self-portraits painted by Vincent van Gogh, but rather than relying on expressionistic brushstrokes, Bickerton proposes an abstract visage composed of consumer logos as a new form of self-expression and identity for a consumer society.
Torus House represents a contemporary revision of the artist's house, a type of residence rooted in the nineteenth-century Arts and Crafts movement. The two largest spaces in the house will be painting studios. The space pictured in this computer-generated print will be used for easel painting and will also serve as a gallery and a living space. The glass walls provide generous views of the partially wooded field in this remote, contemplative setting. Spatially and visually, the vertical circulation in the center of the studio links all the principal elements of the house. The formal character of the Torus House design is remarkable for its melding of seemingly incompatible geometric languages. The architect hopes to reinvigorate the historical tension between the orthodox and the radical: "The dialectic between norm and exception in architecture relies on the persistence or memory of social and building conventions on the one hand and formal transgression on the other." In this instance, the norm is a courtyard house, which is transformed by the use of nonarchitectural, seamless, curvilinear forms derived from the torus. That topological form is generated by rotating one circle along the path of a second, larger circle, usually producing a doughnutlike shape. Amplifying the ambiguity between the house's interior and exterior, a stair, which occupies what would be the hollow core of the torus, bypasses the interior of the house by running directly from the parking area at ground level to the roof above. The architect explains that "the curvilinear lines and undulations blend the individual components into an unbroken surface that resembles features of the landscape beyond."
Towards Disappearance, II is a cloud of blues, yellows, and reds, and of red's variants in oranges and pinks. In earlier works, Francis had used a structure of interlocking cells or globules, close in size and shape; traces of this structure remain, but more ragged formations and drips suggest a less orderly energy. Restraining clusters of black collect in the upper part of the canvas, but their weight only heightens the force of the exuberant primaries, which seem to loft them by bubbling up from below. After the mid–1950s, Francis increasingly enjoyed creating contrast through areas of white. Pressing in from the sides, and glimmering in the crevices among the patches of pigment, the white in Towards Disappearance, II only makes the colors brighter.Studying painting in California in the late 1940s, Francis had seen exhibitions of Abstract Expressionism, and had absorbed the ideas of the New York School. His next stop, though, was not New York but Paris, where he lived through much of the 1950s; he admired Pierre Bonnard and Henri Matisse, and was particularly influenced by the iridescent atmospheres of Claude Monet's Water Lilies series. In consequence, Francis is often seen as inheriting the potent love of color in French art. As he himself said, "Color is the real substance for me, the real underlying thing which drawing and line are not."
Towards the late 1960s Gego conceived the environmental wire sculptures that she called Reticuláreas. Fundamentally geometric, these weblike structures can be configured in an endless number of ways, thereby transforming the exhibition space. Drawing without Paper comes from a series of the same name, created between the mid–1970s and the late 1980s, that consists of three–dimensional metallic structures made of wire, thread, and various found objects. Normally installed close to the wall, casting a shadow, the piece incorporates the space around it by leaving its trace the open field of the gallery. The three–dimensionality of this drawing is related to Greek skiagraphy (shadow writing) and emphasizes the thickness of the lines.
Toward the end of 1912, Léger made among the most defiantly abstract works yet seen. Over the next two years he worked intensely in this experimental idiom, producing the fifty or so canvases, and twice as many works on paper, that constitute his Contrastes de formes (Contrasts of forms) series. An inventory of repeated forms—geometric cones, cubes, cylinders—jostle and pile across the surfaces of these works. Here, Léger rejects illusion to focus on the mechanics of representation, drawing attention to them with roughly blocked forms, exposed supports, unmodulated color straight from the tube applied in painterly patches, and highlights detached from any light source. Chiaroscuro, the traditional technique of light and shadow used to create the illusion of three-dimensionality within the two-dimensional reality of the picture plane, becomes a language of absolute contrasts: strident black and white or colored striations clash with one another across the works.
Trained as an architect, Clerici was a skilled draftsman, and he used his academic technique to convey flights of the imagination with convincing precision. Here, the harmony of a duet between two string musicians is envisioned as a grotesque doubling. This combination of illusionism and theatricality led one critic of the time to remark, "Of all the artists working today, Clerici is the most attached to the Baroque." Indeed, the influence of seventeenth- and eighteenth-century Italian art is visible in this drawing's exaggeration of the instruments' ornamental filigrees. Clerici repeats these forms in a play of corporeal curves—overly attenuated fingers and an octopus-like array of limbs.
Trained in Pakistan at the National College of Arts, Shahzia Sikander defied current artistic trends and mastered the ancient art of miniature painting, relying on idioms from both Indian and Persian traditions. When she moved to the United States in 1993 to attend the Rhode Island School of Design, ultimately settling in New York, Sikander began integrating personal and contemporary symbols outside customary miniature painting, while also giving this centuries-old tradition renewed relevance. Varying greatly in scale and medium, Sikander's recent work emphasizes its physical, often labor-intensive formats, from jewel-like paintings and narrative scrolls to wall-size installations and digital montages. Her work continually challenges convention in both formal structure and content, crossing artistic and cultural boundaries—Hindu and Muslim, East and West, past and present, handicraft and digitization. With a strong academic background in printmaking, Sikander created her first published print in 1999 with Deitch/Steinberg Editions in New York. Initially making a screenprint, she has since experimented with etching, photogravure, drypoint, and chine collé, often using a computer to reprocess and layer her imagery digitally. Working with a variety of workshops—Noblet Serigraphie, Burnet Editions, Crown Point Press, and Axelle Editions among them—she has completed twenty-five prints to date, including two portfolios. For Afloat, Sikander returned to screenprinting, creating a bold, ethereal work inspired by her installations of painted murals layered with translucent drawings. She incorporates her recurring motifs, including a headless female figure with trailing tendrils and a smaller female figure in profile. The emanating, ornamental dot patterns relate to geometric shapes, in particular the circle, which has spiritual significance in the East. Although Afloat appears to comprise multiple overlapping sheets of paper, it is actually printed on both sides of one sheet of semi-transparent Thai Mulberry paper using gradations of color that achieve the look of layered translucency.
Travel is a central metaphor in the work of Salvatore Scarpitta. After constructing a series of racing cars in the 1960s, the artist continued his exploration of movement in the 1970s with his many works pairing sleds and canvases. Scarpitta handcrafted his sleds, mostly from found materials; his canvases are surplus medical cloths used in childbirth or surgery, to which the artist lent an uneven coloration by rubbing the backs with pigment and dipping them in resin.
Trio A, choreographed in 1966, became the first part of Rainer's best known performance, The Mind Is a Muscle (1966–68). The artist herself is the dancer in this film documentation from 1978. Rainer's emphasis on ordinary motions and gesture is readily apparent, and the dance is an exploration of action rather than a vehicle for dramatic storytelling. Rainer cofounded the Judson Dance Theater in 1962, and together with her colleagues she questioned the role of dance as a modern art form.
Trockel created what she calls her "knitting pictures" as a response to her perception of a male-dominated art world. By using traditionally feminine resources and techniques, she calls into question an assumed hierarchy of materials, which places painting at the top and craft at the bottom. In this work, knitted wool was stretched on a frame, mimicking the typical way an oil painting on canvas is displayed. A commercial machine was programmed to knit the phrase "Made in Western Germany" into the wool, an allusion to the artist's background and to the commodification of artists and art in a capitalist society.
True to an alternate name for Abstract Expressionism, "action painting," Kline's pictures often suggest broad, confident, quickly executed gestures reflecting the artist's spontaneous impulses. Yet Kline seldom worked that way. In the late 1940s, chancing to project some of his many drawings on the wall, he found that their lines, when magnified, gained abstraction and sweeping force. This discovery inspired all of his subsequent painting; in fact many canvases reproduce a drawing on a much larger scale, fusing the improvised and the deliberate, the miniature and the monumental."Chief" was the name of a locomotive Kline remembered from his childhood, when he had loved the railway. Many viewers see machinery in Kline's images, and there are lines in Chief that imply speed and power as they rush off the edge of the canvas, swelling tautly as they go. But Kline claimed to paint "not what I see but the feelings aroused in me by that looking," and Chief is abstract, an uneven framework of horizontals and verticals broken by loops and curves. The cipherlike quality of Kline's con-figurations, and his use of black and white, have provoked comparisons with Japanese calligraphy, but Kline did not see himself as painting black signs on a white ground; "I paint the white as well as the black," he said, "and the white is just as important."
Tschichold said he experienced a "strong feeling for typography" during his visits to Czechoslovakia between 1931 and 1933. Among the designers there with whom he maintained contact was Sutnar, a teacher at the Státní Grafické Skoly (State school of graphic arts). In 1929 Sutnar became artistic director of the state-run publishing house Drustevní Práce and its associated industrial-design firm specializing in modern household wares). The "dp" monogram was a trademark reproduced in all of the company's publications and related enterprises.
Tschichold's first important posters were for films shown in the Munich Phoebus-Palast, which, when it opened in 1926, was the largest cinema in Germany, seating 2,174 people. In the poster, photographs evoke a sense of the film's unfolding narrative and the mechanics of cinematic projection. Tschichold's dynamic composition imaginatively carries the train forward, bursting through a flat red circle toward the audience. Poster exhibitions and film festivals proliferated between the wars and were important in disseminating The New Typography. This poster was exhibited in the 1927 Internationale Schau zeitgenössischer Reklame (International exhibition of contemporary publicity) in Mannheim, Germany.
Tuymans based this painting of a dense, billowing cloud on a photograph taken during the collapse of one of the World Trade Center towers in 2001. While the widely circulated source image is steeped in emotional potency, Tuymans has removed all markers of context, save for fragments of a streetlamp (at bottom left) and flagpole (at right), and has titled the work Demolition. The artist, who considers painting to be an antiquated medium, uses "color to play with time." "By mixing white and color . . . I could make a canvas seem as though it had existed for thirty or forty years," he has said. Tuymans deliberately makes his paintings "look old from the start . . . because they are about memory."
Tuymans's painting, one of a series of works related to the history of the Congo, is based on a photograph of Patrice Lumumba, the first prime minister of the former Belgian Congo (now the Democratic Republic of the Congo). A visual reminder of an unresolved conflict in history that began with Belgian colonial rule and proceeded to Congolese independence and ongoing civil war, the painting was inspired by a debate, belatedly begun in Belgium in 2000, about the events surrounding Lumumba's assassination thirty-nine years earlier. But this stark portrait tells us nothing about Lumumba or Africa. By implication, the portrait leads our attention to Belgium's unspoken historical role in colonialism, and to the country's conflicted consciousness as it confronts this disputatious past. If, as Tuymans has said, the subject of this work is history, then the object is a vessel of historical memory. Working from his own visual memory of Lumumba's photograph rather than from the photograph itself, the artist re-created his subject through subtle changes. Lightening the shade of Lumumba's skin and altering the look in his eyes, Tuymans challenges the stereotype of the black man as "savage," a source of threat and apprehension. Is Lumumba, seen in lighter tones, a more "civilized" man? Tuymans seems to be asking us. Here, Lumumba's bemused gaze seems to question the very myth that he has become. Tuymans's selection of this particular image recalls a mid-nineteenth-century European tradition in which vast archives of documentary photographs were built up as part of the control and surveillance of the colonized populations. Power, secrecy, and control laws stand at the origin of those archives. It is this ideological connotation of photography that Tuymans subverts by addressing it so forthrightly. The artist goes beyond photography's indexical representation, critiquing and twisting its original function in order to intertwine the representational contents of history, myth, and memory. Tuymans inspires the viewer to ponder the creation of cultural identity through political history. Through Lumumba's gaze we see the artist gazing at history.
Tweenbots are small, constantly moving robots that depend on the kindness of strangers to get where they are going. Kinzer sent Tweenbot Sam on missions in New York City's Washington Square Park armed only with a flag asking passersby to point him toward a particular destination. She expected that Sam would be crushed, lost, or thrown away, but "every time the robot got caught under a park bench, ground futilely against a curb, or became trapped in a pothole," Kinzer observed, "some passerby would always rescue it and send it toward its goal." Her surveillance (via a video camera hidden in her purse) showed people interacting directly with the robot and even engaging strangers in a discussion of its predicament. If the Tweenbot's destination seemed too dangerous, people sometimes ignored the instructions on the flag and faced the robot in a different direction.
Twombly is a key member of the generation of American artists immediately following the Abstract Expressionists. Between 1967 and 1971 he produced a number of works on gray grounds. The largest in the series, this monumental painting features terse, colorless scrawls, reminiscent of chalk on a blackboard, that form no actual words. Twombly made this work using an unusual technique: he sat on the shoulders of a friend, who shuttled back and forth along the length of the canvas, thus allowing the artist to create his fluid, continuous lines.
Two parents, two young children: "It's a nuclear family," as Ray says, the model of American normalcy. Yet a simple action has put everything wrong: Ray has made all of them the same height. They are also naked, and unlike the store-window mannequins they resemble, they are anatomically complete. This and the work's title, the Freudian phrase for the suppressed erotic currents within the family unit, introduce an explicit sexuality as disturbing in this context as the protagonists' literally equal stature.Early works of Ray's submitted the forms and ideas of Minimalism to the same kind of perceptual double-take that Family Romance works on the social life of middle-class Anglo-Saxon America. He has worked in photography and installation as well as sculpture, and his art has no predictable style or medium; but it often involves the surprise of the object that seems familiar yet is not. Like other works of Ray's involving mannequins, Family Romance suggests forces of anonymity and standardization in American culture. Its manipulations of scale also imply a disruption of society's balance of power: not only have the children grown, but the adults have shrunk.
Typically used for commercial and political promotion, billboards are rarely sites of personal narrative or expression. American artist Felix Gonzalez–Torres subverted this convention in this work, a billboard commissioned by the contemporary art journal Parkett. The billboard shows a beach or sandlot covered in footprints. The absence of any text allows the work to suggest a multiplicity of meanings—a journey, the passing of time, the absence of human presence, even death. Gonzalez–Torres symbolically likened art to the powerful trace of footsteps, when he said, "It leaves a mark. It leaves a statement that you were here, that perhaps it is possible to have a different view of life."
Typical of Lowman's wall collages, this work pairs images of iconic tabloid celebrities "stolen" from American popular culture to create explosive new narratives. Suiting the brash sources of his inspiration, Lowman's aesthetic is slipshod and casual. he layers photocopied images and distorted silkscreen transfers of infamous blonds, assembling an improbable cast of tragic women. other than their hair color, the women's most striking commonality is the media's obsessive exploitation of their scandals. Lowman creates an unsettling new history in which the victim-as-pinup-girl (Nicole Simpson) is absurdly connected to the brash, collectively maligned aggressor (Lizzie Grubman) by the sport utility vehicles featured in both women's demoralizing tales. Lowman injects humor into this gruesome landscape of American popular consumption through ironic and provocative one-liners and bumper-sticker "paintings" that further distort our collective memory of these sensational stories.
Under apartheid pass laws, black South Africans were required to carry a passbook at all times—a kind of internal passport containing an identification photograph, employment information, stamps, signatures, and other pieces of information. This multipaneled work presents a man's entire passbook, page by page—a record of his life.
Under the opposing forces of the sun and moon, a flayed, blood-red man collapses into the arms of a ghastly pale woman. In this poster advertising the premiere of his play Mörderer, Hoffnung der Frauen (Murderer, hope of women), Kokoschka manipulates the Christian iconography of the Pietà, which traditionally shows a mother cradling her dead son. Hung all over the city, the poster, with its graphic imagery, announced the brutal and bizarre events of the drama, which stages an epic, bloody battle between the sexes. Kokoschka's deliberately crude lettering reinforces the barbarity of the events. As the poster suggests, the woman at first seems to slay the man, but in the end he emerges victorious. The play befuddled, amused, and offended the audience of its single performance on July 5, 1909, at the Kunstschau exhibition in Vienna, a venue otherwise filled with exquisitely refined designs by contemporary European artists. Kokoschka later reminisced, "If the term Expressionism has any meaning, then this is its earliest manifestation."
Unknown private collection, Nice [1]. Galerie Percier, Paris, after 1923 [2]. Paul Chadourne & Colle, Paris; sold through Jacques Kaplan to John Hay Whitney (1904-1982) and Betsey Maria Cushing Whitney (1908-1998), New York, 1949 [3]; The Museum of Modern Art, New York (Mrs. John Hay Whitney Bequest), 1998.[1] Rewald, John, ed., The John Hay Whitney Collection, exh. cat. London: Tate Gallery, December 16-January 29, 1961, no. 41: "Private collection, Nice; Paris art market."[2] Reproduced in Cahiers d'Art 1928, no. 5-7 C: "Anc. Coll. Galerie Percier." [3] Collection files, Department of Painting and Sculpture, The Museum of Modern Art, New York.
Unlike most of the typefaces used on screens, which were designed for print and intended to be read on paper, Verdana was designed for use on the computer screen, created from the beginning to be easily readable at small sizes, with simple curves and large, open letterforms. Because the forms are so open, the counters (the negative spaces in the letters) do not fill in even when bolded, enhancing the legibility of the heavier version of the typeface. Moreover, the letterforms are spaced more widely than in a print font so they are legible even when displayed in computer applications that don't control spacing, and letterforms that look alike (such as i, I, and 1), are designed to be as dissimilar as possible. In addition, certain letters are spaced so that they never touch, regardless of combination (an f next to an i, for example), because at small sizes connecting letters can form illegible blobs.
Unlike the expansive vistas often seen in landscape paintings, Cézanne's Pines and Rocks is a tightly framed, compressed view of nature. Low bushes and massive boulders form a bulwark against the forest, and a vertical line of pine trees extends upward, obscuring the sky beyond. Though the trees and rocks firmly structure the scene, Cézanne also infused Pines and Rocks with a sense of airiness and movement. Glimpses of bare, unfinished canvas peek through the dense weave of brushstrokes. At first glance, Cézanne's palette seems limited to blues, greens, and browns, but a closer look reveals endless variations of colors, including shades of yellows, violets, and reds. At close range the painting appears nearly abstract—a dancing network of innumerable brushstrokes, some parallel, others looser and more rapidly applied. Stepping back, these varied marks coalesce into a shimmering effect that Cézanne called "vibrations of light."
Uno sull'altro, a modular system of slotted stacking shelves, was featured in MoMA's 1972 exhibition Italy: The New Domestic Landscape. Curated by architect Emilio Ambasz, the exhibition comprised 150 Italian design objects from the previous decade as well as a dozen unique "environments" by well-known designers. The stacking shelves exemplify the strong interest at the time in flexible design suited to new concepts of informality for life-styles and domestic environments. Trained in architecture, La Pietra established a studio in 1964 and worked as a design consultant to furniture, accessories, and lighting manufacturers. An architect, designer, theoretician, and writer, he is currently based in Milan.
Unsigned and inexpensively printed, Ruscha's photography books are antithetical to the traditional limited-edition livre d'artiste, or artist's book. Their banal subject matter and documentary style are indebted to the remarkable pictures of signs and vernacular architecture that American photographer Walker Evans made in the 1930s, but their deadpan, cool aesthetic is radically different. While each book chronicles an aspect of Los Angeles or the artist's round-trip drives between LA and Oklahoma, their use of photography as a form of map-making or topographical study signals a conceptual, rather than documentary, thrust.
Untitled (Stack) is made of up to twelve rectangular metal boxes—a simple geometric form Judd favored because he felt it carried no symbolic meaning. Depending on the height of the ceiling where the work is displayed, the number of units may be reduced in order to maintain even spacing between them. Judd made this work based on a predetermined system, circumventing the spontaneous decisions artists often face during the art-making process. Like many of his Minimalist contemporaries, Judd used industrial materials—in this case, galvanized iron and green lacquer paint typically used in auto body shops—and had the work fabricated in a metal workshop according to his specifications.
Upon their appearance in the mid-1940s, Maya Deren's films were described by New York Times dance critic John Martin as "choreocinema," a happy neologism that attempted to account for two of Deren's thematic preoccupations: the human body in motion and the filmmaking process itself. Her first two films, Meshes of the Afternoon (1943) and At Land (1944), began this endeavor (if only partially), but it was in her third project, Study in Choreography for Camera, that Deren fully realized her vision of freeing the human body from the confines of theatrical—and actual—space. In Study, a dancer (Talley Beatty) moves effortlessly within and between different environments (forest, living room, museum gallery, etc.), an achievement arrived at through the careful matching of his precisely choreographed movements with the film's editing pattern. As Beatty leaps from space to space across Deren's film splices, a new geographical reality is created, one where great distances can be covered within the span of just four minutes. Beatty's disciplined performance never betrays the difficulties that he and his director must have overcome to attain so fluid a result. Deren's camera, in effect, becomes Beatty's partner.
Using a rich palette and articulated brush strokes, Colescott has depicted a chaotic emergency room, which he considers to be "a vivid allegory for the whole country." Since the 1960s, Colescott has addressed social issues, particularly racial stereotypes, through narrative figuration. This scene is crowded with caricatured figures, including a priest holding a decapitated head, a skeleton receiving a blood transfusion, a gang of knife–wielding apes, and a doctor smoking as he administers an injection. The women in the painting are subject to violence and harassment, and one large, recumbent, objectlike woman in the background has bricks for flesh, skeletons for eyes, and factory smoke for hair.
Using numbers as "a way of writing without describing," Darboven based much of her work on the calendar. In 1968, when a new generation of artists was making conceptual, process-oriented works, Darboven began creating labor-intensive drawings based on the addition of the digits that make up a date (day + month + year). Her emphasis on process and duration makes time both the raw material and the subject of her art. Like a journal or a diary, her work documents her life, but her use of mathematical procedures ensures that her personal history is kept private.
Using the woodcut technique, Ernst Ludwig Kirchner created twenty-two illustrations, the title page, and the cover for this collection of six novellas by Swiss author Jakob Bosshart.Kirchner met Bosshart in Davos-Frauenkirch, Switzerland, the Alpine village to which the artist had moved in 1918. Bosshart, like Kirchner, had originally come to Davos seeking alleviation for his depression. Artist and writer were each captivated with the other's work, and presumably around the summer and fall of 1922, Kirchner began to create the woodcuts for Bosshart's texts.Bosshart's novellas, written between 1917 and 1922, feature peculiar characters off the beaten track. The protagonists are predominantly village people struggling with a variety of moral conflicts, often triggered by the challenges of modernization. Kirchner's affinity for Bosshart's texts was likely related to his own interest in the vernacular traditions and folk culture of the area.
Vacationers often turn their cameras away from the crowded highway toward a pristine mountain range, taking care to exclude power lines and other tourists from the beautiful view. They are performing a ritual of homage to the ideal of the American West, and to its grand tradition in photography. In the late 1960s, Adams, an inhabitant of the West, pioneered an alternative landscape tradition, which included man and his creations in the picture. "We have built these things and live among them,"his photographs seem to say, "and we need to take a good, hard look at them."Photography had never before been so plain and brittle, so lacking in embellishment and seduction. Yet the very aridness of Adams's early style introduced to the medium a new kind of beauty, rooted in the frankness of his acknowledgment that what we see in his photographs are our own creations, our own places.
Valentine Gallery, New YorkOliver B. James, New YorkThe Museum of Modern Art, New York. Purchased at Oliver B. James Estate auction, Parke-Bernet Galleries, with Hillman Periodicals Fund, October 19, 1955
Valentine Gallery (Valentine Dudensing), New York. By 1944Wright Ludington, Santa Barbara, California. Purchased from Dudensing show, 1944 - at least January 1954Mr. and Mrs. Justin K. Thannhauser, New York. [Acquired in 1954 or 1955] - sold in November 1955The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Purchased from Justin K. Thannhauser with Mrs. Simon Guggenheim Fund, November 1955
Van Der Zee, a portrait photographer, worked in New York during the Harlem Renaissance of the 1920s and 1930s. His subjects range from families and newly married couples to public figures such as Marcus Garvey. In Baptism Celebration to Maria Warma Mercado, Van Der Zee recorded the assembled party in their finest attire, complete with celebratory hats. This picture was taken in a private home, but the artist made many of his portraits in his studio, using a range of props and backdrops. Largely self-taught, Van Der Zee developed a retouching technique, often painting directly onto the negative or print to achieve his desired level of idealization.
Van Doesburg understood modern architecture and modern painting as complementary, arguing that the two media had something basic in common: the flat plane. He believed that painting could serve as a laboratory for testing architectural ideas. This work in gouache was not intended as a plan for a specific building but as abstract explorations of spatial relationships. Van Doesburg began with plans for private houses that he had developed with the architect Cornelis van Eesteren. Then he eliminated the signs of functional architecture: doors, windows, and roof are all absent, and no directional cues distinguish front from back. Instead, the structure floats freely in space and time.
Vasily Kandinsky, 1931 – 1944.(On consignment with Galka Scheyer, Hollywood, c. 1933 – c. 1944)Nina Kandinsky, Neuilly-sur-Seine (Paris). Kandinsky estate, [1944 or 1945] – 1949Sidney and Harriet Janis, New York. Purchased from Nina Kandinsky, 1949 – 1967The Museum of Modern Art, New York. The Sidney and Harriet Janis Collection, 1967
Vertov, a Soviet film director, redefined the medium of still and motion-picture photography through the concept of kino-glaz (cine-eye), asserting that the recording proficiency of the camera lens made it superior to the human eye. In a double image in Chelovek s kinoapparatom (Man with a Movie Camera), the eye is superimposed on the camera lens to form an indivisible apparatus fit to view, process, and convey reality, all at once. Other sequences show cinema transforming traditional craft into industrial production through the juxtaposition of a series of images: turning spools of thread are likened to the turning reels of a film projector; the cleaning of the streets is equated to the cleaning of film; sewing is compared to editing; and a hydroelectric plant that provides energy for the textile industry is linked to the power on which the cameraman and the film industry rely.
Victore attributes his compulsion to question authority to his childhood on a military base during the Vietnam War. After dropping out of art school, he began producing self-financed posters for nonprofit organizations devoted to the history and welfare of Native Americans, AIDS awareness, and race issues. Racism is a response to the riots between Hasidic Jews and African Americans in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, in summer 1993. Through this straight-forward depiction of "RACISM" eating itself, the designer brings attention to its destructive essence.
Victore attributes his compulsion to question authority to his childhood on a military base during the Vietnam War. After dropping out of art school, Victore began producing self-financed posters for nonprofit organizations devoted to Native Americans, AIDS awareness, and race issues.In Double Justice, conceived to promote a documentary film by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People about the racism inherent in the exercise of the death penalty, Victore uses the game Hangman to highlight discrimination.
Victore attributes his compulsion to question authority to his childhood on a military base during the Vietnam War. After dropping out of art school, Victore began producing self-financed posters for nonprofit organizations devoted to Native Americans, AIDS awareness, and race issues.Just Say No points to the “Disneyfication” of New York and particularly of Times Square. Victore has asserted that New York is “being touristed to death. New Yorkers are becoming just like the great silverback gorillas who will now come down and will eat out of your hand.”
Vital often uses animal and other natural forms in his work, arranging them in surreal configurations. He often turns to lambs or goats, common in both his native village in rural Switzerland and in Agadez, Niger, where he keeps a home. This work is made from an imprint of the actual bodies of two lambs: he painted their fleeces with a printmaking solution, then laid the animals directly onto a large copper etching plate.
Vola is a customizable system of plumbing fittings meant for both the kitchen and bathroom. Organized around a single valve unit that adjusts water temperature and volume in one movement, the modular scheme includes wall plates, spouts, and interchangeable accessories, including paper towel holder, toothbrush holder, soap dish, and even an ashtray. Though the design was finished in bright primary colors popular in the 1960s, the concept of designing multipurpose utilities was by this time well established.
Von Bonin works across a variety of mediums and assembles a range of materials, including fabric, photographs, embroidery, and even bird excrement, to make drawings. By letting a bird leave its trace on her drawing, the artist undermines the value traditionally placed on the original artistic gesture. By incorporating a pattern for a marine badge, she references the feminine practice of sewing. Simultaneously, von Bonin points to and undermines the macho image of the military: though her inscription refers to power and strength, the smiley face brings the emblem within the context of children's games.
Wall began making large backlit transparencies in the late 1970s. He had experimented with filmmaking, and he felt that staging scenes for the camera could radically broaden the potential of still photography. Another touchstone for his large pictures has been the grand theater of human figures in Western painting since the Renaissance.Wall's ambitious project began to take shape in the early 1980s when he embarked on a series of photographs devoted to the everyday lives of people at the margins of society. Many of the pictures (including Milk) were derived from incidents that Wall observed and subsequently adapted and restaged with nonprofessional actors.In Milk the harsh, impersonal geometry of the background transforms the scene into a stage, and the man's clenched posture and the liquid explosion distill the violence of anger into a vivid symbol. Instead of evoking the continuity of experience, the arrested image snatches the figure out of time altogether, rendering him a static emblem of distress.
Wallpiercing is a modular lighting system that appears to be inserted directly into walls or ceilings, piercing them like an earring. The system is composed of individual ring-shaped tubes mounted onto plaster panels, which can then be seamlessly integrated into the wall. The units can be isolated, arranged in groups, or linked to create luminescent patterns. The LED lamps radiate light inward, casting their glow onto the surface, and can be dimmed and controlled for color and brightness.
War and Peace deals with Napoleon's 1812 invasion of Russia, but its wider themes of imperial power, war, and the place of the individual in history resonated with the political situation in Poland in the 1980s. Stajewski's ambiguous imagery is suggestive of lethal danger and self-harm—a white bird is a conventional symbol of peace, but the vicious beak implies aggression; the bloodstain can be read as a self-inflicted wound.
Warhol based this work on a film still from the 1938 gangster movie Angels with Dirty Faces, starring James Cagney. He cropped the still at the bottom and left, heightening the dramatic and menacing nature of the scene. Cagney is one of Warhol's first screenprints on paper. The white streaks through the composition are the result of printing irregularities that left blank, uninked areas on the paper. During this early moment in his career, Warhol embraced the imperfect, handmade, and almost painterly quality of such accidents.
Warhol likely based this painting on a film still from the 1960 movie Flaming Star.  It is one of twenty-three Elvis canvases that were first exhibited at the Ferus Gallery, Los Angeles, in 1963 Warhol's second show there. Apparently too busy to frame the works himself, Warhol sent a roll of canvas silkscreened with repeating images of Elvis, stretcher bars of various sizes, and directions to cut the canvas into segments however the gallery saw fit. Warhol's Elvis canvases were his first to feature multiple, overlapping figures, a formal device that almost makes it seem as if the singer-actor's likeness is moving or flickering against the silver-screen background.
Warhol likely made this drawing while he was still an art student. He traced the image of Roy Rogers, an American singer and actor known as "King of the Cowboys," from a magazine clipping or publicity still. He had collected such images of his favorite stars since childhood.
Warhol made this work using the blotted line technique, a process he devised to transfer drawings from one sheet of paper to another by blotting wet ink. Flowers, fruit, and butterflies, like the ones that appear here in metallic leaf overlays, were among his favorite motifs.
War veterans in full military dress march along a city street. Such horrifically maimed and disfigured men were far from uncommon in Germany after World War I, when 80,000 amputees returned home from the front. Reliant on prosthetics, canes, and crutches, these veterans have become as mechanized as the war that claimed their flesh. Yet even while depicting the tragic results of the conflict, Dix imbues the work with caustic humor: the veterans are passing a shoemaker (identified by the boot in the shop window and the word Schuhmacherei), a service for which, thanks to the war, they now have limited need. Kriegskrüppel (War cripples) is one of Dix's earliest attempts at using drypoint, which he learned from the artist Conrad Felixmüller in Dresden. He based this print on a painting, which the Nazis later condemned as degenerate and destroyed.
[Washington Square Gallery (Robert J. Coady and Michael Brenner), New York, by 1921] [1]; Phoebus Aaron Theodor Levene (1869-1940), New York; by inheritance to Anna Erickson Levene, 1940; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1947 (Bequest of Anna Erickson Levene in memory of her husband, Dr. Phoebus Aaron Theodor Levene).[1] Collection files, Department of Painting and Sculpture, The Museum of Modern Art, New York.
"We all agreed that [the head of the State Film Agency] should not expect us to design anything that resembled Japanese, American, Russian, or Swiss posters," explained Tomaszewski. "I was trying to find the essence of the film.  I was trying to  feel the impression that the film had on me, whether it was a lyrical film, comedy, drama, sport or war film.  I wanted to illustrate this essence with my own language, in my own way." Tomaszewski won five awards at the 1948 International Poster Biennale in Vienna, and as head of the poster studio at the Warsaw Academy of Fine Arts from 1952 to 1985 he was the central figure of the Polish Poster School.
Wearing was born in 1963 in Birmingham, England, and studied at the Chelsea School of Art and Goldsmiths College in London. In 1997 she won the Turner Prize, one of the most important and prestigious visual arts awards in Europe. Her documentary-style videos and photographs explore issues of social behavior and present intimate portraits of daily life. For this three-screen video projection, Wearing invited several of her East London neighbors into her studio and filmed their activities and behavior in black and white against a white backdrop.The three side-by-side images fill a gallery wall and alternate between nearly life-size group scenes and single portraits. Thoroughly intoxicated, the men and women seem to totter from one projected image to another, as if crossing a stage. They stagger together and alone, fight and reconcile, cling to each other for support, lose control, stumble, fall, pass out, and sleep. Although Wearing extracted the characters from their regular surroundings and situated them in a neutral location, the stark reality is palpable.
Weber said that he wanted “to put the abstract into concrete terms,” and this arrangement of triangular planes and sharp angles in polychrome plaster is one of the earliest examples of abstraction in sculpture. Weber was an American who from 1905 through 1908 lived in Paris, where he saw early Cubist art featuring fractured planes and multiple viewpoints. Upon his return to New York, he helped to introduce the innovations of the European avant-garde to American artists.
Weegee, a news photographer, borrowed his professional name from the ouija board as a way of advertising his uncanny ability to show up in the right place at the right time. On this occasion, however, it appears that he was not the first to arrive at the scene. Instead of a grisly close-up of the corpse, he gives us a generous view of the aftermath of the crime: the cops have seen it all before and pass the time in bored distraction while the photographers work.Photographs began to appear in newspapers around the turn of the century, and the heyday of newspaper photography did not get under way until the 1920s. But it did not take long thereafter to establish the staples of the trade: winners and losers, heroes and villains, catastrophes and celebrations—timeless dramas reinvigorated on a daily basis by the specificity of photographic fact. The genre was at its most pure in the tabloid papers, which dispensed with the facade of journalistic reserve in their headlong pursuit of sensation. Nevertheless, as the writer Luc Sante notes: "In Weegee's hands, this cynicism is so extreme it almost becomes a kind of innocence."
Wegner became a designer after an apprenticeship to a cabinetmaker and work as a sculptor. He famously stated, "A chair is only finished when someone sits in it." Of the three hundred chairs he designed in his lifetime, this one became known as "the chair." With its strong zigzag joints, gently curved arms and back, and hand-woven cane seat, this iconic work exemplifies the leading Danish designer's craft sensibility and dedication to wood, his favorite material. During the first nationally televised United States presidential debate in 1960, Richard Nixon and John F. Kennedy each sat in one of these armchairs.
Weiner's main material is language. In 1968 he declared that his works do not have to be constructed by him or even fabricated at all. From that time, his art has consisted of "propositions"—usually texts written on walls—rather than objects. The French publishing house onestar press invited Weiner to design a bookshelf to display the artist's books they have produced since 2000. The company's name is a play on "one–star hotel" and refers to the inexpensive digital rotary press the publisher uses.
Weiner's medium is language. As a Conceptual artist his constructions of words and phrases seek to affect our perception of the spaces they are presented in. In appearance the language used by the artist is plain and neutral. In effect, however, this particular piece is quite evocative—the artist invites us to imagine ourselves surrounded by sand and rocks as we enter a space inhabited by art.
Well known for his involvement in the mail art movement of the 1960s and 1970s, Johnson created the "New York Correspondance School" artist club in 1962 and distributed his postcards, letters, and collages through the mail until his death. by circumventing conventional commercial methods of making and displaying art, johnson established a deep interaction or "correspondence" with his audience. In these five collages, he used an array of eclectic materials—newspaper clippings, magazine articles, photographs, even fragments of older works—to demonstrate the infinite number of "correspondences" that may exist between a set of seemingly unrelated items. Richard Pousette-Dart Masher exemplifies how diverse fragments can come together to represent a particular person and illustrate Johnson's affinity with other artists and his respect for them.
Well known for his involvement in the mail art movement of the 1960s and 1970s, Johnson created the "New York Correspondance School" artist club in 1962 and distributed his postcards, letters, and collages through the mail until his death. by circumventing conventional commercial methods of making and displaying art, johnson established a deep interaction or "correspondence" with his audience. In these five collages, he used an array of eclectic materials—newspaper clippings, magazine articles, photographs, even fragments of older works—to demonstrate the infinite number of "correspondences" that may exist between a set of seemingly unrelated items. Saul Stienbergexemplifies how diverse fragments can come together to represent a particular person and illustrate Johnson's affinity with other artists and his respect for them.
West elevates the poster to art but also subverts its function: these prints appear to announce upcoming events, but they were made after the dates they advertise. Here, friends of the artist pose and cavort with West's Adaptives, the awkwardly shaped papier-mâché sculptures that he expects viewers to touch, carry, or wear.
What material and form could adequately express the memory of a catastrophe as unbearable as the martyrdom of 6 million Jews in the Holocaust? In 1967, on the recommendation of Philip Johnson, a committee charged with building such a memorial in New York City commissioned Louis Kahn to design it. The monument was to be situated in Battery Park, at the southern tip of Manhattan, where it would have distant views of the Statue of Liberty. Kahn proposed an abstract design: a granite pedestal supporting seven glass piers, so that, in his words, "the sun could come through and leave a shadow filled with light." This spectacular image, the sole drawing included in an exhibition devoted to the Memorial at The Museum of Modern Art in 1968, captures the sense of transparency and reflection that Kahn envisioned through loose, energetic strokes of charcoal pencil on the luminous yellow paper. The drawing focuses on the central glass pier, made of glass blocks etched with inscriptions in Hebrew and English, and built to contain a small circular chapel. Around this central space are the other six piers, all of them solid glass. Kahn described the immaterial quality these vitreous forms would have: "Changes of light, the seasons of the year, the play of the weather, and the drama of movement on the river will transmit their life to the monument." This structure of light embodied hope as well as despair. The project is contemporary with one of Kahn's last philosophical concepts, "silence and light," where light symbolizes the source of life and the inspiration of the creative act.
"What spaces, what activities, what buildings form the creative center of human communication?" This probing philosophical question, posed in 1955 by American architect Louis I. Kahn, underlies the buildings and projects for which he is known, including his studies of Philadelphia's downtown. Kahn had very few building projects in the 1950s, but he was at the forefront of Philadelphia's immense urban redevelopment initiative. His numerous studies, many of them made without a commission, focused on the historic downtown district. Kahn believed that only by a centralization of buildings and activities, supported by a clear ordering of streets and traffic, would meaningful civic life be preserved.
"What spaces, what activities, what buildings form the creative center of human communication?" This probing philosophical question, posed in 1955 by the American architect Louis I. Kahn, underlies the extraordinarily powerful buildings and projects for which he is known, as well as these two studies of Philadelphia's city center. In the 1950s Kahn had relatively little real work. Philadelphia, where he lived nearly all his life, was launching a decade of immense redevelopment, and Kahn was at the forefront. His numerous studies, many of them made independently without a commission, focused on the historic center city. These visionary drawings are significant not as blueprints for Philadelphia's redevelopment but because they reveal forms and ideas fulfilled in Kahn's later masterpieces. The Traffic Study is a carefully ordered conceptual plan in which Kahn proposed a new traffic pattern. In an effort to untangle traffic congestion and to mitigate the haphazard proliferation of parking lots that plagued postwar American cities, Kahn reordered the streets according to a functional hierarchy. Like an idiosyncratic musical score, the drawing's abstract notational system corresponds to different tempos of traffic, such as the stop-and-go movement of trucks and buses (dotted lines), the fast flow of vehicles around the periphery (arrows), and the stasis of cars in parking garages (spirals). To explain his movement study, Kahn invoked a historical analogy: for him, the girdle of expressways and parking towers circling the city center metaphorically recalled the walls and towers that protected the medieval cities of Europe. Kahn's specific comparison was to the largely medieval town of Carcassonne, in the South of France: just as Carcassonne was a city built for defense, Kahn envisioned the modern city center having to defend itself against the automobile.
When architect Louis I. Kahn died suddenly in New York's Pennsylvania Station in 1974, he was seventy–three years old and deeply in debt, and he left behind three families—one legitimate, the other two not. Nathaniel, born of one of Kahn's mistresses, was the youngest survivor, only eleven years old when his father died. My Architect is the adult Nathaniel's attempt finally to come to terms with his father's life and work. The film approaches the elder Kahn in two ways, through his buildings and through interviews with those who knew him best: family, colleagues, and acquaintances. Nathaniel visits and films himself interacting with such famous structures as the Salk Institute for Biological Studies in La Jolla, California, the capitol building in Dhaka, Bangladesh, and the library at the Phillips Exeter Academy in Exeter, New Hampshire. Architecture luminaries I. M. Pei, Philip Johnson, Robert A. M. Stern, and Frank Gehry, among others, speak to Nathaniel about his father's professional methods and legacy, as well as about his troubled personal life. The most affecting footage is of Nathaniel's mother and his two siblings, testimony that is all too brief and on which he fails to elaborate, but which nevertheless provides much–needed insight into the personality of the famous man. In the end, Nathaniel Kahn never does gain full knowledge and understanding of his father, yet he does achieve a kind of grudging peace within himself, as well as a deeper appreciation of his father's considerable achievements.
When Bontecou first exhibited her steel-and-canvas sculptures, many praised their aggressive, ominous qualities.  Fellow artist Joseph Cornell described their gaping black cavities as summoning "the terror of the yawning mouths of cannons, of violent craters, of windows opened to receive your flight without return, and the jaws of the great beasts."The year Bontecou made this work was marked by intense anxiety: the Bay of Pigs invasion in Cuba failed, the U.S. committed its first troops to Vietnam, and the construction of the Berlin Wall began. Although Bontecou rarely comments on her art, in a statement that accompanied a 1963 MoMA exhibition featuring this work, she wrote, "My concern is to build things that express our relation to this country—to other countries—to this world—to other worlds—to glimpse some of the fear, hope, ugliness, beauty and mystery that exists in us all and which hangs over all the young people today."
When George Bellows made his first print in 1916, he was already an established illustrator and a painter of what would come to be known as the Ash Can School, a reference to artists who recorded everyday life among New York's working class in sympathetic, often gritty detail. Bellows was initially inspired by the etchings of John Sloan, his supervisor at the Socialist magazine The New Masses, but after making one etching, he switched to lithography, finding it more suited to his fluid, gestural draftsmanship. Bellows produced nearly two hundred lithographs between 1916 and his untimely death in 1925. His subjects range from genre scenes, social issues, and the atrocities of war to portraiture and the nude. His prints were occasionally based on earlier works in other mediums, particularly his illustrations, but prints also led to new paintings and drawings. In the 1920s Bellows worked with master printers George C. Miller and Bolton Brown, both of whom were known for their contributions to the practice of lithography among American artists at the time. In addition, Bellows owned his own press, enabling him to rework compositions through multiple states and to experiment with tonal effects. Bellows's boxing series comprises eighteen lithographs, twenty-two drawings, and six paintings, dating from 1907 to 1924. Dempsey and Firpo was the result of an assignment Bellows received from the Saturday Evening Post to cover a prizefight between the champion Jack Dempsey and the Argentinean contender Luis Firpo. The artist chose to depict the moment when Dempsey was knocked out of the ring. Many believe the crowd pushed Dempsey back in, making his subsequent victory controversial. The lithograph captures the fall and the stunned expressions of the audience. Light-and-dark effects describe the muscular, athletic bodies and also convey the drama of the struggle.
When Jennifer Bartlett's Rhapsody was first shown in 1976, it occupied the entirety of Paula Cooper's SoHo gallery space. The work, which consists of 987 onefoot-square steel panels stretching over an expanse of more than 150 feet, has an overall monumentality, but its small-scale panels invite intimate interaction. As you read the work from left to right, seven thematic sections appear, called Introduction, Mountain, Line, House, Tree, Shape, and Ocean. Rhapsody adds joyful color and a narrative subject matter to the grid formation of Minimalist art of the 1960s.
When Louis began making his large Unfurled paintings in 1960, their dimensions often made it impossible for him to extend the canvasses fully in his small studio—the dining room of his Washington, D.C., home. Similarly, few galleries were large enough to accommodate them, and only two of the more than one hundred in this series were exhibited before the artist died in 1962. Although Louis painted on a vast scale, the brightly colored ribbons of paint cascading down the sides of this canvas invite a close look. Perhaps even more remarkable than the immense size of this work is the broad expanse of raw canvas Louis left exposed—an emphatic void framed by exuberant color.
When New York's Interborough Rapid Transit system opened in October of 1904, it was hailed as an engineering marvel, and people across America expressed wonder and curiosity about what it was like to move swiftly below the surface of the nation's biggest and busiest city. Within seven months of the subway's opening, G. W. Bitzer provided an answer, taking a Biograph camera underground to film this "actuality" film. The bulky photographic apparatus was mounted on the front of a train trailing just behind the one being filmed, while a flatcar filled with lights traveled on a parallel track, providing illumination in the dark tunnel between Union Square and the old Grand Central Station. The result was an unprecedented view of the future of urban travel in the new twentieth century. Although copyrighted and exhibited on its own, footage from Interior was included in another American Mutoscope and Biograph Company release of 1905, the comic farce Reuben in the Subway.
When Robert Flaherty proposed filming an Inuit hunter and his family for a year, following them from igloo to igloo and from kill to kill in the harsh Arctic waste, no American movie company was willing to finance the project. In the end, the French furrier Revillon Frères backed the project, and the American branch of the French film company Pathé agreed to distribute it. The result was a film that may fairly be described as the foundation of the documentary genre. Nanook of the North went far beyond the actualities and travelogues of early cinema to present something new, a fictionalized version of a real person's life. Taking his cues from successful Hollywood films, Flaherty blended realistic and beautifully composed images with a loose narrative and a strong central character. While not, strictly speaking, an objective record of actual events, the work that emerged was nevertheless true to the spirit of the life it was trying to convey. Ever since Nanook of the North premiered, documentary filmmakers have been grappling with issues of objectivity versus subjectivity and reality versus invention that the film (unintentionally) raised.
When Roth first started making concrete poetry, in the mid-1950s, he termed his compositions “ideograms.” In them, pictures are formed out of letters, punctuation, or other letterset characters. As the rigor of this exercise began to wear on him, he found release in a visually related but philosophically distinct activity, making what he called “stupidograms.” Working from a grid of printed commas, he used a pen or pencil to coax out looping chains, teacups, toothbrushes, and other forms, mimicking word-search games. As part of his increasing play with verbal-visual equivalency, here the artist circled punctuation to form pictures rather than circling letters to form words.
When Sonia Delaunay-Terk and her husband, Robert Delaunay, created their first completely abstract or nonobjective paintings, the term "simultaneous contrast" described the harmonious and lyrical effects they achieved with pure color. Their style, "Orphism," alludes to the Greek god and musician Orpheus. Delaunay-Terk's investigations into simultaneity include her internationally acclaimed designs in the applied arts, ranging from textiles to advertisements to book bindings. Comprised of brightly colored arabesques, concentric circles, triangles, and rectangles, Delaunay-Terk's pochoir illustrations for Blaise Cendrars's poem and its radical format have made this a landmark in the history of the modern book. The poet and the artist conceived of this project as the first "simultaneous book." When closed, the accordion-folded volume can be slipped into a wrapper. Opened out vertically, the format facilitates the contrast of the darker themes of the poem with the vibrant dynamism of the illuminations that accompany it. Written as a stream of consciousness, Cendrars's poem alternates between his memories of a train trip across Siberia in 1904 and thoughts of his girlfriend, Jehanne. Complementing the rhythms of the poem, Delaunay-Terk interspersed patches of color with the poet's staggered text, printed in twelve different fonts. The poem and the illustration both end with references to the Eiffel Tower and the ferris wheel, two architectural marvels of Paris at that time, further symbolizing modernity and the experiences of simultaneity that urban life provided. After Prose, Delaunay-Terk returned to book illustration intermittently throughout her career. Although she had made figurative intaglio prints between 1905 and 1910, it was not until the 1960s and 1970s that she experimented with screenprint, aquatint, lithography, and etching in her signature style. Of her approximately one hundred fifty prints, nearly one-third are book illustrations.
When Steve Jobs bought George Lucas's computer–animation division in 1986 and, in partnership with the Walt Disney Company, turned it into Pixar Animation Studios, none but a handful of true believers thought that CGI (computer–generated imagery) technology would be useful for much more than the creation of special effects for the occasional action Þlm. In a few short years, however, the creative team at Pixar—led by Ed Catmull and John Lasseter—proved that CGI could indeed produce animated Þlms of great beauty and imagination, so long as the fundamentals of narrative filmmaking (story, character, and world) were observed and honored. After making a series of influential short films, Lasseter undertook the production of Toy Story, the first CGI–only feature ever made. It tells the tale of Buzz Lightyear and Woody, two toys who vie for the affection of Andy, the young boy they belong to. It is a comedy/action film, filled with daring adventures and comic exploits, but at its core Toy Story is the tale of two rivals who become friends, as well as a love story about a child and his toys. As Lasseter has so often asserted, Pixar films are not about the technology, but about storytelling. In 2005, in honor of their twentieth anniversary, Pixar and Disney donated the company's entire library of short and feature–length theatrical films to The Museum of Modern Art's permanent collection.
When the Futurists extolled the dynamism of the machine, machines had not yet become common in daily life. As the First World War ended, however, a new age of ubiquitous technology truly began. Man Ray trained as a draftsman specializing in engineering and machinery and was therefore ideally qualified to picture the appearance of this new subject in terms specific to itself; in terms, at least, of its popular appeal. For while Vorticists like Lawrence Atkinson had already coopted the techniques of mechanical drawing to give to abstract subjects a cool, machinelike look, Man Ray used techniques developed for advertising tecnhnological products to give to the invented machine we see here the glamour that attached to machines themselves. This drawing was prepared by stencils and templates, over which an airbrush was used. Then carefully ruled lines, meticulous lettering, and areas of painstakingly filled-in gouache complemented what, in effect, is a presentation drawing for a manufactured object—but one whose function is irrational and obscure. Whereas the dynamism of the machine is the pricipal subject of pre–First World War technologically obsessed modernism, the function and then the appearance of the machine become more imporatant as artistic subjects from around the time of the war. This is partly to be attributed to the increasing familiarity of machines and to disenchantment with technological force produced by the war. While further from an actual machine than [Severini's Armored Train in Action (1915)], Man Ray's drawing looks more closely at the workings of machinery than that does; and it does so ironically. It also, however, makes the structure of the machine its own structure. Before this could happen there was required not merely a new attitude and knowledge of technology; also, a new perception of the function of subject matter in modern works of art.Once the subject and the object of modern art converged, as they did in collage—where representation of a still life was replaced, in effect, by making a still life—the work of art became an object more in the world than of it. A curious impasse was thus produced, for further to increase art's objecthood could only, it seemed, lead to works of art that were simultaneously subjects and objects—like "real" objects in the world. To follow this path would be to surrender most of the traditional reasons for making art at all. Hence Picasso's return to representation after the First World War. Marcel Duchamp, however, did carry the objecthood of modern art to its logical conclusion. His "readymades" are common manufactured objects, detached from their contexts, that function as art objects themselves, with subject and object as one. Manufactured objects were ideal for this purpose because they, like art objects, were artificially contrived. The machine, and things made by machines, thereby became paradigmatic of what art itself was in the world. In Man Ray's drawing, not subject and object but subject and structure are one. This also derives from Duchamp: from the so-called Large Glass that followed his first readymades, from which Man Ray also takes his sexual interpretation of the machine. The female "Orchestrelle" leans over invitingly to the beaming Cinematograph. "Abandon of the Safety Valve" trails through the air like one of those advertising slogans still to be seen pulled by turning aircraft, but a novelty then. And in a strip up the side of the drawing, even, passion begins rising, then reaches climax and crosses the edge of the sheet.
When the group Joy Division was working with Saville on this design and asked him what he had in his studio, "out came Pierre Wolff, and images of tombs," as he would later recall, "because I think they look trendy." With hindsight this choice seems to have been aligned with lead singer Ian Curtis's suicidal depression. Saville was interested in creating a frisson from wrapping a neoclassical style of typography and subject matter "around a twentieth-century piece of vinyl, on which is the sound and language of 1980. The graphics are purely historical, but the totality is a modern mix."
When this painting was first reproduced, in the May 1914 edition of the journal Les Soirées de Paris, it was titled La Glace sans tain, or "the mirror without silvering," referring to a device known as a Claude mirror: the dark, red-framed square in the picture. Many artists used one of these slightly convex, dark-tinted mirrors to clarify their compositions; a scene reflected in it is less colorful than life, its compositional elements accentuated. Something close to that effect is visible here in the structured vertical and horizontal bands and the cool blue palette that Matisse painted over other layers of color, some of which are still visible. As he simplified forms he reinforced them with incising and scraping, in, for example, the cloud at top left. Matisse used this view twice in his 1913 drypoint Bell Flower.
When Warhol first exhibited these thirty-two canvases in 1962, each one simultaneously hung from the wall like a painting and rested on a shelf like groceries in a store. The number of canvases corresponds to the varieties of soup then sold by the Campbell Soup Company. Warhol assigned a different flavor to each painting, referring to a product list supplied by Campbell's. There is no evidence that Warhol envisioned the canvases in a particular sequence. Here, they are arranged in rows that reflect the chronological order in which they were introduced, beginning with "Tomato" in the upper left, which debuted in 1897.
When water is evaporated and condensed, chemicals, sand, and most harmful organisms are left behind, making the water safe to drink. A one-step distillation process, the Watercone is composed of a clear plastic cone and a black plastic pan. Salty or brackish water is poured into the pan; the black plastic absorbs the heat from the sun, evaporating the water, which condenses on the walls of the cone then drips into the lip at the base of the cone, where it is collected. When full, the cone can be turned upside down and the drinkable water funneled into containers. Based on evaporation levels tested in Casablanca, Morocco, each cone can produce up to about 1.5 liters (3 pints) of clean water a day.
"Where I got the color red—to be sure, I just don't know," Matisse once remarked. "I find that all these things . . . only become what they are to me when I see them together with the color red." This painting features a small retrospective of Matisse's recent painting, sculpture, and ceramics, displayed in his studio. The artworks appear in color and in detail, while the room's architecture and furnishings are indicated only by negative gaps in the red surface. The composition's central axis is a grandfather clock without hands—it is as if, in the oasis of the artist's studio, time were suspended.
While a student at the New York School of Art, Edward Hopper studied with Ash Can painter Robert Henri, who favored harsh scenes of city life and whose circle included printmakers John Sloan and George Bellows. Hopper had also been to France, where he admired the etchings of Édouard Manet, Edgar Degas, and Charles Meryon. Initially a commercial illustrator, Hopper contributed to the Socialist magazine The New Masses, when his friend, the masterful etcher Sloan, was art editor there from 1910 to 1914. The following year, with the help of the artist Martin Lewis, Hopper began making prints. Between 1915 and 1928 he made seventy etchings and drypoints before turning exclusively to painting. During those formative years, intaglio prints earned Hopper recognition as well as sales, and he bought his own press so that he could experiment in his studio and print as the demand arose. The subjects most identified with Hopper are empty settings—an isolated house, a vacant room, an abandoned street. Mystery and psychological tension are evoked through the manipulation of light, unusual vantage points, and dramatically simplified compositions. When figures are included, they are often alone, engulfed in a sense of solitude or dwarfed by their physical environment. Hopper also depicted trains, such as The Locomotive, which monumentalizes the steam engine while literally marginalizing and cutting off one figure standing at the left. The brightly lit overpass and darkened tunnel ahead exemplify Hopper's symbolic use of light and architecture. In Night Shadows, the view of a lone figure from a high vantage point adds an atmosphere of suspense. Both prints demonstrate the vigorous cross-hatching, deeply bitten lines, and heavy inking that are typical of Hopper's etchings. The starkly white paper he specifically sought out, and the manner in which he wiped the ink on the copperplates, also contribute to the intensity of his chiaroscuro effects.
While Benglis's primary medium is sculpture, there was a period in the 1970s when she worked extensively in video, a new medium of the time.  In this work sexual roles are not only examined up close but are also mocked, in a chaotic burlesque that captures a brash aspect of feminist thinking.
While designers often reimagine the standard forms of kitchen tools for aesthetic reasons or to utilize new materials, these works demonstrate ergonomic changes intended to make familiar objects more accessible. Most of them were featured in MoMA's 1988 exhibition Designing for Independent Living, which highlighted the efforts of designers to meet the needs of the elderly and people with physical disabilities. Since 1969 Ergonomi Design has specialized in this area, reflecting through its award-winning products and its motto "Innovation for People" an outstanding commitment to diverse user needs. Their work from the 1970s and '80s, much of which is still in production today, represents the progressive “democratic” design that has long been associated with the historically equality-driven culture of Sweden.
While fruit is often a subject of still life paintings, these cherries are not arranged on a plate, nor do they showcase the artist's talent for verisimilitude, as is traditional in the genre. Instead, Guston used his standard palette of red, blue, dirty peach, and black and painted these twelve cherries perched on a ledge. The variety in their sizes, shapes, and positions seems to anthropomorphize them. While his abstract paintings of the 1950s earned him recognition, by the late 1960s Guston had developed a new figurative style, inspired in part by the comic books he had loved as a child, but suggesting a far darker worldview.
While it cannot take the place of self-defense classes, this accessory can provide a measure of safety to a woman walking alone at night. The ring is an alternative to the practice of a woman placing her keys between her fingers to use as a weapon in case of attack. The ring is more stable, slipping over three fingers; it requires less coordination to be effective; and it frees up the user's keys for easier and quicker access to her car or home. When not used for defense, the ring folds in on itself, taking the form of an elegant stack of three shapes, and it can be worn on one finger as a decorative accessory.
While living in Paris between 1926 and 1932, Torres-García met Neo–Plasticist artists Theo van Doesburg and Piet Mondrian, with whom he created the Paris-based group Cercle et Carré (Circle and Square), composed of artists who favored geometric abstraction and opposed Parisian Surrealism. In accordance with the group's artistic tendencies, Torres–García adopted the grid in its most rigorous and geometric sense as a means to preserve the two–dimensionality of a picture. Color Structure belongs to a limited series of paintings and drawings he made between 1929 and 1930. Here the artist created allover patterns by dividing the picture surface into horizontal and vertical formations, each painted with different primary colors. Although Neo–Plasticists believed in the pure qualities of the grid, Torres–García emphasized instead the raw aspect of the composition, highlighting the imperfections of the canvas, the impurity of the colors, the thickness of the paint, and the manual tracing of the brushstrokes.
While making a film in Japan, a French actress has an affair with a Japanese architect. As their relationship unfolds, the story of her life in occupied France as the lover of a German soldier, as well as her subsequent condemnation as a collaborator, is interwoven with his horrific experiences as a survivor of the atomic bombing of Hiroshima. Both are married, to all appearances happily so, yet they are drawn to each other in subtle, unspoken ways. Director Alain Resnais's images and screenwriter Marguerite Duras's words present the story in a series of searing flashbacks, brief vignettes that sometimes leave the viewer unsure whether the date is 1959 or 1945. This jumbling of time produces a sense of timelessness, of course, but it also impresses one with the contingent nature of reality and, most importantly, truth. The two lovers, knowing their relationship is fleeting, challenge and soothe each other in equal measure, so as to savor every moment they have together. This lack of a traditional narrative structure, combined with the understated performances by Emmanuèle Riva and Eiji Okada in the lead roles, disturbed audiences in 1959, leaving many with the idea that Resnais, who had only recently turned to fiction features after a distinguished career directing documentaries (among them, 1955's Nuit et brouillard), was either incompetent or hopelessly pretentious. Time has proved otherwise, and Resnais's subsequent body of work has more than rewarded the close attention of sympathetic viewers.
While teaching at the Bauhaus, Breuer often rode a bicycle, a pastime that led him to what is perhaps the single most important innovation in furniture design in the twentieth century: the use of tubular steel. The tubular steel of his bicycle's handlebars was strong and lightweight, and lent itself to mass-production. Breuer reasoned that if it could be bent into handlebars, it could be bent into furniture forms.The model for this chair is the traditional overstuffed club chair; yet all that remains is its mere outline, an elegant composition traced in gleaming steel. The canvas seat, back, and arms seem to float in space. The body of the sitter does not touch the steel framework. Breuer spoke of the chair as "my most extreme work . . . the least artistic, the most logical, the least 'cozy' and the most mechanical." What he might have added is that it was also his most influential work. An earlier version of this chair was designed by Breuer in 1925, and within a year, designers everywhere were experimenting with tubular steel, which would take furniture into a radically new direction. The chair became known as the "Wassily" after the painter Kandinsky, Breuer's friend and fellow Bauhaus instructor, who praised the design when it was first produced.
Whiteread creates plaster casts from objects and spaces, evoking physical memories of them. Untitled (Paperbacks) is the negative cast of the interior of a library, turned inward; a room filled with the spectral marks of books whose contents and titles appear to be lost. The plaster surfaces are a visible manifestation of the room—the books' binding colors, their widths, and even the texture of their pages are still "readable." Whiteread's sculpture creates tension between the haunting and the poetic, the monumental and the fragile, and the ephemeral and the eternal.
Whiteread's drawings are not exact plans for her three-dimensional projects, but they also focus on the spare elegance of overlooked details and objects that surround us. "Drawings help me choreograph a space, in terms of placing something or making something work within a space, in doing that with line on a page first," she has explained. Typically executed on graph paper, they often feature white correction fluid—a medium she prefers because it is viscous and yet translucent and its matte finish resembles the plaster she uses in much of her work.
Wild, scribbled, graffiti–like marks energize the expansive white surface of The Italians, revealing the artist's sensuous joy in manipulating his medium. The explosion of signs, ironically, is not without order or clarity: the rubbing of charcoal on the far left side of the canvas reveals the stretcher bar beneath it, a red heart can be seen at the bottom, and "roma" is written just beneath the artist's signature at the top right.
Wilhelm Uhde (1874-1947), Paris, c. 1928 [1]. Albert Lewin (1894-1968), New York, by 1953 [2]; Estate of Albert Lewin; sold through Parke-Bernet, New York to Sidney Janis, New York, December 12, 1968 [3]; acquired by The Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1971.[1] Hans Körner and Manja Wilkens, Séraphine Louis 1864-1942: Biographie / Werkverzeichnis. Berlin: Reimer, 2009, no. 46, pp. 99-101.[2] Collection file 37.1971, Department of Painting and Sculpture, The Museum of Modern Art, New York.[3] Nineteenth and Twentieth Century Paintings and Sculpture, Parke Bernet Galleries, New York, December 12, 1968, no. 65 (title: Grand bouquet de fleurs).
Wilhelm Uhde, Paris (art dealer, 1874-1947). 1910-1914Uhde collection and gallery stock sequestered in 1914 by French Government as property of a German enemy. Auction sale, Hotel Drouot, Paris, Collection Uhde: Tableaux modernes. Vente de biens allemands, May 30, 1921, no. 44Danish collector, Copenhage [possibly Christian Tetzen-Lund]. Purchased at Uhde auction, May 1921Paul Rosenberg, Paris. Purchased from Danish collector and sold to Breton right awayAndré Breton, Paris. Purchased from Paul RosenbergRené Gaffé (d. 1968), Bruxelles. Purchased from Breton – 1938Roland Penrose, London. Purchased from Gaffé, 1938 – 1956Nelson A. Rockefeller, New York. Purchased from Penrose, 1956 – 1979The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Nelson A. Rockefeller Bequest, 1979
Willem Beffie, Amsterdam. By 1913J. B. Neumann (Jsrael Ber Neumann), New Art Circle (from 1923), New YorkMr. and Mrs. Leo Lionni, Greenwich, Connecticut. Purchased from J. B. NeumannThe Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift of Mr. and Mrs. Leo Lionni, 1953
Willem de Kooning achieved renown as one of the preeminent Abstract Expressionist painters of the New York School. Born in The Netherlands, he emigrated to the United States in 1926 by stowing away on a boat bound for New York from Rotterdam. Initially he supported himself as a commercial artist and sign painter, but soon became involved in the active group of artists and intellectuals that were centered in his Greenwich Village neighborhood. De Kooning made tentative forays into printmaking at various points in his career: in 1943 he experimented at Atelier 17, the workshop run by Stanley William Hayter that had temporarily relocated from Paris to New York; in 1957 he created an etching for an illustrated book project; in 1960 he made two large lithographs at the University of California at Berkeley in a single day, famously using a mop to draw on the lithographic stones; and in 1966, he contributed a lithograph to a portfolio published by his friend, master printer Irwin Hollander. However, 1970 proved to be an extremely intense and productive period of printmaking for the artist. Just back from Japan and newly inspired by calligraphy and Sumi ink painting, de Kooning thought that lithography might provide a new means to investigate these ideas. Executed in black and white, the twenty-four lithographs editioned during his year-long collaboration with Hollander are full of figurative references that dissolve into loose, gestural brushwork, drips, and splashes. This example makes a playful reference to his best-known body of work, his Women, which are usually more aggressively depicted. With the artist's title as a clue, the viewer can make out the white high heels of the titular cartoon character. Although de Kooning issued editions after 1971, that year marked the end of his most active period of printmaking.
William H. Johnson was among the foremost painters of African-American life during the Harlem Renaissance. Born in South Carolina and educated in fine arts in New York and Provincetown, Johnson spent most of his time from the mid-1920s to the late 1930s in Europe, where he was influenced by Post-Impressionism and Expressionism. After achieving critical acclaim abroad, he returned to New York permanently in 1938 under the threat of war and with a desire to reconnect to his roots. The move produced a dramatic change in his work. Assigned by the government's Works Progress Administration to teach at the Harlem Community Art Center, Johnson became immersed in the sights, sounds, and people of New York's African-American community, which he captured in compositions of flat shapes, patterned designs, and brilliant colors that were distinctly modernist in their simplicity and directness. During his lifetime, Johnson created more than seventy-five prints. While in Europe he produced woodcuts and linoleum cuts, usually with hand coloring, inspired by the raw power of German Expressionism. After returning to New York, he took up screenprint and pochoir, techniques that suited his new embrace of simplified forms and bold colors. He printed these works on assorted found papers and often completed his images by hand with tempera, making each print slightly different from the next. He frequently experimented with subjects by printing compositional variants and also rendering them in drawing and painting, each format enriching the other, but with the printed versions the most simplified of all. Notable among Johnson's New York prints are those that capture the essence of Harlem's fashion, music, and dance. This print, entitled Blind Singer, shows a pair of musicians in an open-air performance that was common on the city's bustling streets. The composition's flatness, pure color, and orchestrated angularity endow this still image with a sense of rhythmic motion and dynamic energy.
Williams permeates her paintings with sexual motifs rendered in strokes of vivid color coupled with fluid, cartoonish energy. In this canvas, images of big toes emerge from a web of floppy blue and orange shapes. Tethered to Surrealism's rich network of visual allusions—chiefly to foot fetishism and an obsession with toe–licking—the artist uses displaced sexual motifs, such as spiky heels, pointy shoes, big toes, and pudendalike feet. She identifies the hinged feet seen in Don Martin's Mad Magazine cartoons as a source of inspiration. "People don't often talk about the fact that my work is funny," Williams comments, "but that's definitely one of my criteria. I'm really happy if the paint comes out well and it's a really goofy image, like a new dumb take on toes."
Willi Baumeister, Stuttgart. 1942 - 1946-47Mr. and Mrs. F. Taylor Ostrander, Chappaqua, New York. Purchased from the artist, 1946-47 - 1966The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift of Mr. and Mrs. F. Taylor Ostrander, December 1966
Willie Cole constructs his assemblage sculptures from found everyday objects and imbues them with spiritual power through allusion and metaphor. With an ironic and frequently humorous edge, he consistently fuses elements drawn from his African-American heritage with those of contemporary consumer culture. In the mid-1980s he became preoccupied with the steam iron as a domestic, symbolic, and artistic object and began assembling irons into iconic figural forms reminiscent of tribal art. The idea for the scorch came out of his search for ways to infuse his art with the potency of its African sources. Cole is a sporadic printmaker who has completed editions in lithography, woodcut, and digital techniques. His most common printmaking practice, scorching, reflects a sculptor's uniquely physical perspective. In a transfer branding process that constitutes the essence of printmaking, he imprints hot irons in minimal rows, decorative patterns, and figurative shapes on surfaces ranging from canvas and paper to mattress padding and plaster. The scorched "faces" of the irons take on masklike appearances while concurrently suggesting the African ritual of scarification and endowing many of these images with an almost mythic presence. The iron also alludes to Cole's own background, growing up in Newark, New Jersey, with a mother and a grandmother who worked as housekeepers and regularly asked him to repair their broken irons. In the early 1990s, Cole began incorporating a variety of irons in one work to allude to distinct tribal associations. In Domestic I.D. IV, he labels each scorch with a commercial brand name to encourage this interpretation, ironically suggesting the tribes of Silex, General Electric, or Sunbeam. The window frame reinforces the domestic references, and the buckling paper calls attention to the searing heat and violence in the work's creation, adding an overall ominous and poignant overtone.
Winsor's use of a cube can be seen in relation to Minimalist sculpture of the 1960s; however, she undermined this basic form by setting the cement, wood, and wire mesh structure over a bonfire. She burned the cube for about five hours, until, she has said, it "began to expand and round slightly. As it cooled later, it contracted and the cube became slightly concave. During the firing, fragments of concrete popped off the main body to a distance of twenty feet. I had researched the material's properties because I wanted to push it to its structural limit, to where the concrete was actively, dangerously, responding to the heat but was not overwhelmed or destroyed. . . . That is what physically happened to the form and material. That is its history."
Wiscombe's Light-Wing was the winning project in MoMA/P.S.1's fourth annual Young Architects Program, a yearly competition that calls on emerging architects to provide the setting for the summer Warm Up series, a weekly live music program held in the courtyard of P.S.1 Contemporary Art Center in Queens, New York. Designers' architectural solutions must modulate sun, shade, and water in innovative ways.Wiscombe's design was inspired by sails, kites, and other tension structures traditionally found at the beach that exploit dynamic forces like wind and sunlight. It was also motivated by natural formations, such as tidal pools and open-air arboreal canopies that provide shade from the sun. The design is defined by two elements: a translucent, permeable roof of interconnected canoelike shapes that cover portions of P.S.1's courtyard, and a leisure landscape with two long pools that creates new passageways through the monumental courtyard and provides an escape from the summer heat by offering new spaces for swimming and lounging. In this predominantly horizontal design, the only significant vertical elements are the existing courtyard walls. The installation reinvents itself at night through a landscape of fluorescent lights that playfully mingle with the diaphanous materials and porous spaces. Light-Wing was dismantled at the end of the summer; this model is its only physical record.
With a few deft strokes and patches of color, Steinlen conjures up an almost life-size image of the singer Guilbert in her trademark simple gown and black gloves as she prepares to go on stage. During her act at les Ambassadeurs she would stand almost perfectly still, gesturing with her long arms as she half-sang and half-spoke the raunchy lyrics of popular songs, some of them her own. A savvy self-promoter she commissioned her own posters and was also a favored subject of the artist Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec.
With her brooding dark eyes, green hair, and paint–smeared body, this child confronts us from the menacing height of six feet and appears as a force of destruction. Yet the title reveals her to be a creative force—a painter. She is the artist's daughter, Helena, aged five or six, and her babylike body, able hands dipped in black and red paint, and startling visage are completely alien to traditional notions of the artist and the muse. "Historically . . . it was always the male artist who was the painter and his model the female," Dumas has said of this work. "Here we have a female child (the source my daughter) taking the main role. She painted herself. The model becomes the artist."South African by birth, Dumas studied art and psychology in the Netherlands, where she has spent the last three decades creating work that flouts the conventions of portraiture and artistic patriarchy and exposes the misunderstandings that arise between representation and interpretation. The Painter exemplifies her exceptional talent for psychological portraits of women and children, although rarely are they so autobiographical. The artist works from photographs from magazines or books, or those she shoots herself, usually removing identifying details as she composes her engrossing, nuanced portraits.
With its abstract forms and highly polished stainless steel surface, Sentinel initially appears to be an abstract composition. However, the vertical orientation of the piece and the assemblage of geometric forms work in concert with the title to evoke a figure—specifically that of a soldier or a guard. Despite the abstract qualities of his work, Smith never abandoned figuration and figurative references.
With its themes of murderous ambition and the corrosive effects of evil, Macbeth has been a popular play in Eastern Europe since the early nineteenth century. Polish Romanticism and the theater tradition that developed out of it have a strong political dimension. Pagowski's poster emphasizes the king's embattled position as well as his increasing fatalism in response to forces beyond his control.
With phalluses sprouting from their heads, no eyes, and aggressively gaping mouths, the cartoonish protagonists of Ship engage in what appears to be a tragicomic battle. A similar cast of eccentric characters—suggesting the awkward or, as Dunham puts it, "bumpy" nature of life—recur throughout his paintings from the past decade. Dunham began his career as an abstract painter in the early 1980s and quickly became a key figure in the medium's resurgence in the United States after decades dominated by Minimal and Conceptual sculpture and installation art. While he no longer works in a fully abstract mode, his process continues to be intuitive, guided by trial and error rather than premeditated subjects or themes. He recently described painting as "a perfect storm of the crass, the sacred, and the intimately personal."
With The Iron Horse, director John Ford returned to his early film roots to make a Western, but one of epic size and scope. The heroic tale of the building of the first transcontinental railroad provides the historical backdrop for the story of Davy Brandon, a young surveyor for the Union Pacific, whose father had been murdered many years before while pursuing his own dream of a rail link between the East and the West. Character and landscape inform and subtly reflect one another as the story moves relentlessly toward the driving of the final spike near Promontory, Utah, in 1869. Ford foregrounds the ethnic diversity of the gangs that worked on the monumental project—giving pride of place, as always, to his beloved Irish—and shows how, in the face of adversity, the workers were able to overcome their differences and work together, becoming, in the process, a microcosm of the national ideal.
With the prospect of diversification into the sale of appliances—and entire kitchens—competition between gas and electricity providers was rife. Dexel's poster design was an exercise in New Typography, a graphic style that matched the practical values of standardization, economy, and order associated with the New Kitchen. In the 1920s gas won the battle as the preferred fuel for cooking and heating, and many cumbersome old cast-iron stoves were replaced by enameled gas cookers like the Prometheus, a brand favored by German modernist architects such as Grete Schütte-Lihotzky and Ludwig Mies van der Rohe.
With this expansive work, Spero unfurls a stirring call to action. Arms thrown open and legs in full stride, four female figures sprint across the nine–foot–wide sheet of paper as a crowd of companions, signified by floating heads, joins in the chase. "To the revolution!" the title exclaims, in a propelling rallying cry for upheaval and reform.Both artist and activist, Spero creates daring images that address abuses of power throughout history, particularly the subjugation of women. She made her first political works, incorporating a mix of iconography from ancient cultures and the contemporary world, in the early 1960s. A decade later Spero completely eliminated male figures in her art, determined, in her words, "to see what it means to view the world through the depiction of women."In To the Revolution XI, as in other pieces, Spero takes cues from Asian scroll painting and Greek processional friezes, physically pulling the viewer along her storyline through the staccato repetition of images. Stamped on the sheet using a metal letterpress plate and earthy tones, the duplicated female figure is based on an ancient aboriginal design. Borrowing from the past, this banner conveys a sense of urgency and empowerment applicable to the revolutions of the present.
With this table, Dutch design group Demakersvan has merged traditional and advanced manufacturing techniques. Using computer software, the designers translated sketches of the profiles of two antique tables into digital drawings and then made a rendering representing the two morphing into each other. Next, using computer-driven woodcutting machines normally employed for mass production, they fabricated the drawing as a three-dimensional object, in thin vertical sections out of sheets of birch. Each slice was glued by hand to the next, forming a unique piece of furniture.
With visionary zeal and unflinching energy, Stanley William Hayter did much to foster intaglio printmaking as an innovative technique. In 1927, after moving from London to Paris and studying engraving with the artist Joseph Hecht, he founded his own workshop, which he named Atelier 17 in 1933 after its new street address. In 1940, with the outbreak of war, Atelier 17 moved to New York and became a meeting place for exiled European artists and American artists working in various styles. The workshop was transplanted back to Paris in the 1950s. Hayter's induction into Surrealist practice in the late 1920s established the unconscious as a source of his art. His noteworthy contributions to printmaking include an expressive and flexible engraved line that was influenced by automatism; a textural depth created through etching; and innovations in color printing on a single plate. Although Hayter also worked as a painter, it was his printed oeuvre, consisting of some four hundred fifty works, and his celebrated Atelier 17 that influenced countless artists who then disseminated his methods of intaglio printmaking. The plate for Combat was one of the few that Hayter brought from Paris to New York in 1939, prior to opening his Atelier 17 there a year later. Not only was it the largest plate he made in the 1930s, but it also went through ten states, a large number for Hayter. Engraved in 1936, Combat takes as its subject the Spanish Civil War, an event reflected in the work of many artists at the time. Although not immediately discernible, figures constructed from sinuous lines fill the composition, and the etching and engraving processes are exploited to suggest a sense of depth. According to Hayter, the print depicts a violent encounter of combatants, with leaping horses and a plethora of weapons.
With zippers for eyes and a filmstrip collar around its neck, this figure composes an anxious portrait, but its tactile surface of black cloth, faded red velvet, and zippers is charged with the eroticism of imagined touch. Jean originally called this work Secret of the Gardenia after an old movie reel he discovered, along with the velvet stand, at a Paris flea market. As the artist later recalled, Surrealism's leader André Breton "always pressed his friends to center their interest on Surrealist objects," and "he made a certain number himself." Chance discoveries like the movie reel and velvet stand that inspired this work provided a trove of uncanny items for Surrealists to include, combine, and transform in their works.
Wojnarowicz was a prominent artist, writer, musician, and activist in downtown New York in the 1980s and 1990s. Inspired by the language of Pop art, this drawing is from a series of works based on supermarket advertisements and comic strip vignettes, and invoking illness, eroticism, and death. Wojnarowicz considered his art practice to be closely related to his music, and he was a member of the postpunk band 3 Teens Kill 4 (3TK4).
Wojnarowicz was a self-taught, multidisciplinary artist and gay activist vital to the 1980s East Village art scene in New York City. In his art he often layered images "cannibalized" from comics, science fiction, news, and advertising with recurring symbols of cryptic, personal significance (like the dung beetle) to probe oppositional themes of order and disorder, birth and death. After being diagnosed with HIV in 1987, his work grew darker and more politically charged, in a searing indictment of a diseased America and its response to the AIDS epidemic. In Seven Miles a Second Wojnarowicz explored his own sense of mortality, also voiced in his essay "Post cards from America: X-Rays from Hell" (1988), for which he wrote, "The minimum speed required to break through the earth's gravitational pull is seven miles a second . . . we would have to learn to run awful fast to achieve escape from where we are heading."
Wojnarowicz worked as an artist, writer, and activist in New York in the 1980s, a period marked by the initial outbreak of AIDS and by the high–profile charges of obscenity against certain artists advanced by senator Jesse Helms and the American Family Association. The imagery in Fire, such as the rattlesnake imprinted with dollar bills in the lower left and the wanted posters of criminalized (and therefore marginalized) subjects, imbues the work with layered personal and political meanings that address the greed, violence, and homophobia the artist perceived in American culture.Fire belongs to a series of four paintings in MoMA's collection each relating to one of the classical elements: fire, water, earth, and air. It contains natural, mythic, and symbolic sources of heat and energy, such as a volcano, Satan, and a heart. These are juxtaposed with the personal iconography that recurs throughout Wojnarowicz's work: snakes, a dung beetle, and the map and grocery store advertisements on the right panel—found paper onto which the other elements were collaged or painted. Wojnarowicz used Surrealist techniques, such as dramatic disparities of scale, with a combination of image and text to create contemporary statements that are both fantastical and disturbing.
Wolfgang Laib's childhood travels with his family to Afghanistan, India, Iran, and Turkey instilled in him a lifelong interest in non-Western cultures. Before he became an artist, he studied medicine, but concluded that the field treated the body at the expense of the soul. To Laib, art is a form of transcendent spiritual healing and sustenance. Natural materials are important to the artist, who works with beeswax, milk, pollen, and rice, creating simple forms that strive to communicate at a universal level, transcending language.
Wooden Room is part of a series of monumental paintings Kiefer made while studying under the artist Joseph Beuys in Düsseldorf. Rendered in oil paint and charcoal on burlap, the deeply recessed space—Kiefer's attic studio in a converted schoolhouse—seems as if it could be entered by the viewer, despite its slightly upturned floor. Devoid of objects, the room itself is the subject of the painting, animated by Kiefer's lifelike rendering of wood grain. The artist, who was born at the fall of the Third Reich, examines Germany's troubled and often suppressed recent history in his works.
Words relating to human want light up in a pulsing cycle, continually evoking and replacing meaning. By offering words and taking them away, this work disrupts viewers' habits of perception. Nauman believes that language is "a very powerful tool"; he was inspired to use neon tubing because of the convincing messages and hypnotic aura of neon advertisements. Here, with irony, the artist uses this flashing commercial medium—with all its wires exposed—to address fundamental elements of human experience.
Working in the landscape tradition, John Lees bases his drawings on his observation of nature and on the sensations nature inspires. Stream is the culmination of five years' work, during which Lees drew and reworked large, rough sketches of a stream in his backyard in upstate New York, as seen from five different locations. The intense materiality of the drawing is the result of the artist's technique of building up the work's surface and using natural materials gathered from the site he was depicting, including the juice of wild berries. The dates of the drawing are recorded along its left side.
Yayoi Kusama works in a broad range of mediums, from painting and photography to installation and performance art. The possibility of infinite repetition suggested by the intricate netlike pattern visible in this work is one of the artist's signature motifs. The piece was made while Kusama was working in New York City from 1958 to 1968, before returning to her native Japan. She photographed her paintings, then cut up the black–and–white prints and fit them into a grid.
Yokoo's designs characteristically possess a level of personal expression that is remarkable within the graphic arts; the subjects being publicized frequently seem only incidental to the overall design. Craftsmanship is also of paramount importance to Yokoo, who utilizes an elaborate silkscreen process that is unusual in the production of posters, which are ephemeral. His challenges to the commercial nature of the poster are in many respects an homage to traditional Japanese ukiyo-e prints, woodblocks produced for the popular market.In contemporary culture, the individual is increasingly inundated and bombarded with vast amounts of visual information relayed by a variety of means, including television, film, digital media, and print. Combining visual motifs from a multiplicity of cultures and periods, Yokoo's eclectic graphic art reflects this complexity. Included in this poster are references to Édouard Manet's painting The Fifer, Michelangelo's Medici tombs, and traditional and contemporary Japanese images. The complicated appropriation in Yokoo's work echoes Japan's evolution in the 1960s and 1970s from an insular culture to an economic world power.
"You Can Own an American Home," trumpeted a 1917 Chicago newspaper's full-page advertisement for Frank Lloyd Wright's new "System-Built Houses"-low-cost houses assembled from factory-produced elements. Customers requesting plans and brochures from the Richards Company would have received prints like these illustrating the many house models from which they could have chosen. Modeled on Japanese woodblock prints, the style of Wright's lithographs evinces his life-long love of Japanese art. The high horizon line, the planar flatness of foreground and sky, the silhouetted foliage, and the red square (or "chop") framed by the text-all suggest a studied japonisme. Most likely the originals were prepared by Antonin Raymond, Wright's assistant on the contemporary Imperial Hotel project in Tokyo. The System-Built Houses were Wright's first experiment with mass production. Like many modern architects, he confronted both the benefits of the rationalized standardization associated with machine production and the desire for individual expression. "Individuality is a national ideal", Wright proclaimed in 1910, and for him this ideal was symbolized by the American house. Thus he developed a system that allowed variety within an overall unity. Regardless of house size and plan, most of the details were "conventionalized", a term Wright applied to a principle of abstracting form to its essentials. The houses were constructed of wood framing, floors, joists, rafters, roofs, and trim. To streamline the construction process, lumber was measured and precut in the Richards Company factory, then shipped to the site where it was to be assembled, thus saving the contractor and the customer time and money. Wright liked to give his houses descriptive names, for example La Miniatura (pp. 62-63), but the System-Built Houses bear perfunctory labels, such as D101. There were dozens of models, ranging from one to three stories, and the isometric plans illustrate numerous room configurations as well as ideas on how to furnish them. The designs recall Wright's earlier Prairie Houses, named for the landscape of his native Midwest. The characteristic low cantilevered roofs, the linear wood trim visually unifying the stucco wall planes, and the geometric decoration of the art-glass windows constitute a compelling modern alternative to the typical suburban bungalow. An untold number of System-Built Houses were built, mostly in the Midwest. In the following decades Wright continued to experiment with a range of materials and construction systems in an effort to reduce the expense of house building and to give industrialized methods character, expression, and personality.
Yuskavage gained recognition in the late 1990s for opulently painted, provocative depictions of naked young women. She is among the new generation of artists ULAE director Bill Goldston has invited to the studio in recent years and her virtuoso draftsmanship has fostered her creativity with lithography. In this elaborate color work she pushes the medium beyond its conventional boundaries, layering additional printed and hand-drawn elements. In haunting, surreal tonalities that suggest the changing moods of its waiflike subject, this ethereal and dreamlike image exudes a muted eroticism, heightened by the enveloping fertile landscape.
Yuskavage's paintings recall the airbrushed and fantasized female bodies found in popular culture. Here a prim schoolgirl (in a picture seemingly tacked on the wall at upper left) contrasts with the exaggerated pinup girl.  In discussing her work, the artist has expressed complex feelings about her own "self-deprecation, social climbing, and constant longing for perfection."
Zang Tumb Tumb was Marinetti's first published collection of parole in libertà (words in liberty), a form of poetry at the same time verbal and visual. Begun in 1912 and published in 1914, the work is an account of Marinetti's experience of the Siege of Adrianople (now Edirne, Turkey) during the Balkan War of 1912, which he covered as a war correspondent. The title Zang Tumb Tumb evokes the sounds of mechanized war—artillery shelling, bombs, explosions.
Zittel lives and works in the Mojave Desert, where she is engaged with questions of lifestyle, nomadism, and productivity. In addition to drawing she makes furniture, clothes, and "station wagons" that refer to and question traditions of homesteading. This series of gouaches documents her experiments in transforming household waste into decorative wall panels, and they illustrate the artist's relationship with nature. Zittel presents herself as an efficient worker who labors from dusk until dawn, adapting her existence to the structures and colors of the surrounding landscape.
ZOOB (which stands for Zoology, Ontology, Ontogeny, and Botany) is an open-ended play system featuring five basic elements that snap together in twenty different ways. The elements are limblike and jointlike, and there are numerous ways to connect them into complex, organic, movable models. The shapes are inspired by nucleotides, the basic structural units of DNA; shown here in a double helix formation, the toy reminds us that design for children encompasses not only the many types of work displayed in these galleries but also the basic building blocks of living matter and children themselves.
Zorach's sculpture depicts a favorite subject of his, his daughter Dahlov, embracing one of the family's cats. Carved from Tennessee marble, the work retains a sense of the weight and mass of the stone. Zorach allowed his materials to help shape his composition, with his chosen form seeming to emerge organically from them. "Real sculpture is something monumental," he once said, "something hewn from solid mass, something with repose, with inner and outer form, with strength and power."
